

WASP (CV-7)
From: DICTIONARY OF AMERICAN NAVAL FIGHTING SHIPS, James L. 
Mooney, ed., Naval Historical Center, Department of the Navy, 
Washington, DC., 1981
displacement. 14,700
length. 741'4"
beam. 80'8"
extreme width. 109'0"
draft. 19'11" (mean)
speed. 29.5 k.
complement. 2,367
armament. 8 6", 161.1", 16 .50-cal. mg. aircraft. 80
class. WASP
The eighth WASP (CV-7) was laid down on 1 April 1936 at Quincy, Mass., by 
the Bethlehem Shipbuilding Co.; launched on 4 April 1939; sponsored by Mrs. 
Charles Edison, the wife of the Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Charles 
Edison; and commissioned on 25 April 1940 at the Army Quartermaster 
Base, South Boston, Mass., Capt. John W. Reeves, Jr., in command.
WASP remained at Boston through May, fitting out, before she got underway 
on 5 June 1940 for calibration tests on her radio direction finder gear. After 
further fitting out while anchored in Boston harbor, the new aircraft carrier 
steamed independently to Hampton Roads, Va,, anchoring there on 24 June. 
Four days later, she sailed: for the Caribbean in company with MORRIS (DD-
417).
En route, she conducted the first of many carrier qualification tests. Among 
the earliest of the qualifiers was Lt. (jg.) David T. McCampbell, who later 
became the Navy's top-scoring "ace" in World War II. WASP arrived at: 
Guantanamo Bay in time to "dress ship" in honor of Independence Day.
Tragedy marred the carrier's shakedown. On 9 July, one of her Vought SB2U-
2 Vindicators crashed two miles from the ship. WASP bent on flank speed to 
close, as did the planeguarding destroyer MORRIS. The, latter's boats 
recovered items from the plane's baggage compartment, but the plane itself 
had gone down with its crew of two.
WASP departed Guantanamo Bay on 11 July and arrived at Hampton Roads 
four days later. There, she embarked planes from the 1st Marine Air Group 
and took them to sea for qualification trials. Operating off the southern 
drill grounds, the ship and her planes honed their skills for a week before 
the marines and their planes were disembarked at Norfolk; and the carrier 
moved north to Boston for post-shakedown repairs.
While civilian workmen from the Bethlehem Steel Co. came on board the ship 
to check their workmanship and to learn how it had stood up under the rigors 
of shakedown, WASP lay alongside the same pier at which she had been 
commissioned. While at Boston, she fired a 21-gun salute and rendered 
honors to President Franklin D. Roosevelt, whose yacht, POTOMAC (AG-26), 
stopped briefly at the Boston Navy Yard on 10 August.
WASP departed the Army Quartermaster Base on the 21st to conduct 
steering drills and full-power trials. Late the following morning, she got 
underway for Norfolk. For the next few days, while ELLIS (DD-164) operated 
as plane guard, WASP launched and recovered her aircraft: fighters from 
Fighter Squadron (VF) 7, and scout-bombers from Scouting Squadron (VS) 72. 
The carrier 
put into the Norfolk Navy Yard on 28 August for repair work on her turbines-
alterations which kept the ship in dockyard hands into the following month. 
Drydocked during the period from 12 to 18 September, WASP ran her final 
sea trials in Hampton Roads on 26 September 1940.
Ready now to join the fleet and assigned to Carrier Division (CarDiv) 8, 
Patrol Force, WASP shifted to Naval Operating Base (NOB), Norfolk, from the 
Norfolk Navy Yard on 11 October. There, she loaded 24 P-40's from the 8th 
Army Pursuit Group and nine O47A's from the 2d Observation Squadron, as 
well as her own spares and utility unit Grumman J2F's on the 12th. 
Proceeding to sea for maneuvering room, WASP flew off the Army planes in 
a test designed to compare the takeoff runs of standard Navy and Army 
aircraft, That experiment, the first time that Army planes had flown from a 
Navy carrier, foreshadowed the use of the ship in the ferry role that she 
performed so well in World War II.
WASP then proceeded on toward Cuba in company with PLUNKETT (DD491) 
and NIBLACK (DD-424). The carrier's planes flew routine training flights, 
including dive-bombing and machine gun practices, over the ensuing four 
days. Upon arrival at Guantanamo, WASP's saluting batteries barked out a 
19-gun salute to Rear Admiral Hayne Ellis, Commander, Atlantic Squadron, 
embarked in TEXAS (BB-35), on 19 October.
For the remainder of October and into November, WASP trained in the 
Guantanamo Bay area. Her planes flew carrier qualification and refresher 
training flights while her gunners sharpened up their skills in short range 
battle practices at targets towed by the new fleet tug SEMINOLE (AT-65). 
While operating in the Culebra, Virgin Islands, area, WASP again teamed 
with the aviators of the 1st Marine Air Wing, giving the flying leathernecks 
practice in carrier take-offs and landings.
Her work in the Caribbean finished, WASP sailed for Norfolk and arrived 
shortly after noon on 26 November. She remained at the Norfolk Navy Yard 
through Christmas of 1940. Then, after first conducting degaussing 
experiments with HANNIBAL (AG-1), she steamed independently to Cuba.
Arriving at Guantanamo Bay on 27 January 1941, WASP conducted a regular 
routine of flight operations into February. With WALKE (DD-416) as her 
plane guard, WASP operated out of Guantanamo and Culebra, conducting her 
maneuvers with an impressive array of warships-TEXAS, RANGER (CV-4), 
TUSCALOOSA (CA-87), WICHITA (CA45) and a host of destroyers. WASP ran 
gunnery drills and exercises, as well as routine flight training evolutions, 
into March. Underway for Hampton Roads on 4 March, the aircraft carrier 
conducted a night battle practice into the early morning hours of the 5th.
During the passage to Norfolk, heavy weather sprang up on the evening of 7 
March. WASP was steaming at standard speed, 17 knots, a pace that she had 
been maintaining all day. Off Cape Hatteras, a lookout in the carrier spotted 
a red flare arcing into the stormy black night skies at 2245. The big ship 
swung around to head in the direction of the distress signal while a 
messenger notified the captain, who reached the bridge in an instant. Capt. 
Reeves himself took the conn, as a second set of flares was seen at 2259.
Finally, at 2329, with the aid of her searchlights probing the wet night, 
WASP located the stranger in trouble. She proved to be the lumber schooner 
GEORGE E. KLINCK, bound from Jacksonville, Fla., to Southwest Harbor, Maine.

The sea, in the meantime, worsened from a state 5 to a state 7. WASP lay 
to, maneuvering alongside at 0007 on 8 March. At that time, four men from 
the schooner clambered up a swaying jacob's ladder buffetted by gusts of 
wind. Then, despite the raging tempest, WASP lowered a boat, at 0016, and 
brought the remaining four men aboard from the foundering 152-foot 
schooner.
Later that day, WASP disembarked her rescued mariners and immediately 
went into drydock at the Norfolk Navy Yard. The ship received vital repairs 
to her turbines. Port holes on the third deck were welded over to provide 
better watertight integrity, and steel splinter shielding around her 5-inch 
and 1.1-inch batteries was added. After those repairs and alterations were 
finished, WASP got underway for the Virgin Islands on 22 March, the carrier 
arriving at St. Thomas three days later. She soon shifted to Guantanamo Bay 
and loaded marine stores for transportation to Norfolk.
Returning to Norfolk on 30 March, WASP conducted routine flight operations 
out of Hampton Roads over the ensuing days, into April. In company with 
SAMPSON (DD-394), the carrier conducted an abortive search for a downed 
patrol plane in her vicinity on 8 April. For the remainder of the month, WASP 
operated off the eastern seaboard between Newport, R.I., and Norfolk, 
conducting extensive flight and patrol operations with her embarked air 
group. She shifted to Bermuda in mid-May, anchoring at Grassy Bay on the 
12th. Eight days later, the ship got underway in company with QUINCY (CA-
39), LIVERMORE (DD-429), and KEARNY (DD432) for exercises at sea before 
returning to Grassy Bay on 8 June. WASP sailed for Norfolk three days later 
with EDISON (DD489) as her antisubmarine screen.
After a brief stay in the Tidewater area, WASP headed back toward Bermuda 
on 20 June. WASP and her escorts patrolled the stretch of the Atlantic 
between Bermuda and Hampton Roads until 5 July, as the Atlantic Fleet's 
neutrality patrol zones were extended eastward. Reaching Grassy Bay on 
that day, she remained in port a week before returning to Norfolk, sailing on 
12 July in company with TUSCALOOSA (CA-37), GRAYSON (DD-435), 
ANDERSON (DD-411), and ROWAN (DD-405).
Following her return to Norfolk on the 18th, WASP and her embarked air 
group conducted refresher training off the Virginia capes. Meanwhile, the 
situation in the Atlantic had taken on a new complexion, with American 
participation in the Battle of the Atlantic only a matter of time, when the 
United States tools another step toward involvement on the side of the 
British. To protect American security and to free British forces needed 
elsewhere, the United States made plans to occupy Iceland. WASP played an 
important role in the move.
Late on the afternoon of 28 July, while the carrier lay alongside Pier 7, NOB 
Norfolk, 82 Army Air Force (AAF) pilots reported on board "for temporary 
duty." At 0630 the following day, WASP's crew watched. an interesting 
cargo come on board, hoisted on deck by the ship's cranes: 80, Curtiss P-
40C's and three PT-17 trainers from the AAF 33d Pursuit Squadron, 8th Air 
Group, Air Force Combat Command, home-based at Mitchell Field, N.Y. Three 
days later, four newspaper correspondents including the noted journalist 
Fletcher Pratt-came on board.
The carrier had drawn the assignment of ferrying those vital army planes to 
Iceland because of a lack of British aircraft to cover the American landings. 
The American P-40's would provide the defensive fighter cover necessary to 
watch over the initial increment of American occupying forces. WASP 
consequently cast off from Pier 7 and slipped out to sea through the swept 
channel at 0932 on 28 July, with O'BREIN (DD-415) and WALKE as plane 
guards. VINCENNES (CA-44) later joined the formation at sea.
Within a few days, WASP's group joined the larger Task Force (TF) 16 
consisting of MISSISSIPPI (BB-41), QUINCY, WICHITA, five destroyers, 
SEMMES (AG-24), AMERICAN LEGION (AP-35), MIZAR (AF12), and ALMAACK 
(AK-27). Those ships, too, were bound for Iceland with the first occupation 
troops embarked. On the morning of 6 August, WASP, VINCENNES, WALKE, and 
O'BRIEN parted company from TF 16. Soon thereafter, the carrier turned into 
the wind and commenced launching the planes from the 33d Pursuit 
Squadron. As the P-40's and the trio of trainers droned on to Iceland, WASP 
headed home for Norfolk, her three escorts in company. After another week 
at sea, the group arrived back at Norfolk on 14 August.
Underway again on 22 August, however, WASP put to sea for carrier 
qualifications and refresher landings off the Virginia capes. Two days Later, 
Rear Admiral H. Kent Hewitt, Commander, Cruisers, Atlantic Fleet, shifted 
his flag from SAVANNAH (CL-42) to WASP, while the ships lay anchored in 
Hampton Roads. Underway on the 26th, in company with SAVANNAH, 
MONSSEN (DD-436) and KEARNY, the aircraft carrier conducted flight 
operations over the ensuing days. Scuttlebutt on board the carrier had her 
steaming out in search of a German heavy cruiser, ADMIRAL HIPPER, which 
was reportedly roaming the western Atlantic in search of prey. Suspicions 
were confirmed for many on the 30th when the British battleship HMS 
RODNEY was sighted some 20 miles away, on the same course as the 
Americans.
In any event, if they had been in search of a German raider, they did not 
make contact with her. WASP and her escorts anchored in the Gulf of Paria, 
Trinidad, on 2 September, where Admiral Hewitt shifted his flag back to 
SAVANNAH. The carrier remained in port until 6 September, when she again 
put to sea on patrol "to enforce the neutrality of the United States in the 
Atlantic."
While at sea, the ship received the news of a German U-boat unsuccessfully 
attempting to attack the destroyer GREER (DD145). The United States had 
been getting more and more involved in the war; American warships were 
now convoying British merchantmen halfway across the Atlantic to the 
"mid-ocean meeting point" (MOMP).
WASP's crew looked forward to returning to Bermuda on 18 September, but 
the new situation in the Atlantic meant a change in plans. Shifted to the 
colder climes of Newfoundland, the carrier arrived at Placentia Bay on 22 
September and fueled from SALINAS (AO-19) the following day. The respite 
in port was a brief one, however, as the ship got underway again, late on the 
23d, for Iceland. In company with WICHITA, four destroyers, and the repair 
ship VULCAN (AR-5), WASP arrived at Hvalfjordur, Iceland, on the 28th. Two 
days earlier, Admiral Harold R. Stark, the Chief of Naval Operations, had 
ordered American warships to do their utmost to destroy whatever German 
or Italian warships they found. The "short-of-war" operations were drawing 
frightfully close to the real thing!
With the accelerated activity entailed in the United States Navy's 
conducting convoy escort missions, WASP put to sea on 6 October in 
company with VINCENNES and four destroyers. Those ships patrolled the 
foggy, cold, North Atlantic, until returning to Little Placentia Bay, 
Newfoundland on the 11th, anchoring during a fierce gale that lashed the bay 
with high winds and stinging spray. On 17 October, WASP set out for home-
Norfolkpatrolling en route, and arrived at her destination on the 20th. The 
carrier soon sailed for Bermuda and conducted qualifications and refresher 
training flights en route. Anchoring in Grassy Bay on 1 November, WASP 
operated on patrols out of Bermuda for the remainder of the month.
October had seen the incidents involving American and German warships 
multiplying on the high seas. KEARNY was torpedoed on 17 October; SALINAS 
took a "fish" on the 28th; and in the most tragic incident that autumn, 
REUBEN JAMES (DD-245) was torpedoed and sunk with heavy loss of life on 
30 October. Meanwhile, in the Pacific, tension between the United States 
and Japan increased almost with each passing day.
WASP slipped out to sea from Grassy Bay on 9 December and rendezvoused 
with WILSON (DD-408). While the destroyer operated as plane guard, WASP's 
air group flew day and night refresher training missions. In addition, the 
two ships conducted gunnery drills before returning to Grassy Bay two days 
later.
WASP lay at anchor on 7 December 1941, observing "holiday routine"-it 
being a Sunday. In the Pacific, the Japanese broke the Sunday morning peace 
in a devastating surprise attack on the Pacific Fleet at Pearl Harbor. Their 
daring attack plunged the United States into World War II in both oceans. On 
11 December, Germany and Italy followed Japan into war against the United 
States.
Meanwhile, naval authorities felt considerable anxiety that French warships 
in the Caribbean and West Indies were prepared to make a breakout and 
attempt to get back to France. Accordingly, WASP, BROOKLYN (CL-40), and 
two destroyers, STERETT (DD-407) and WILSON, departed Grassy Bay and 
headed for Martinique. Faulty intelligence gave American authorities in 
Washington the impression that the Vichy French armed merchant cruiser 
BARFLEUR had gotten underway for sea. The French were accordingly warned 
that the auxiliary cruiser would be sunk or captured unless she returned to 
port and resumed her internment. As it turned out, BARFLEUR had not 
departed after all, but had remained in harbor. The tense situation at 
Martinique eventually dissipated, and the crisis abated.
With tensions in the West Indies lessened considerably, WASP departed 
Grassy Bay and headed for Hampton Roads three days before Christmas, in 
company with LONG ISLAND (AVG-1), and escorted by STACK (DD-406) and 
STERETT. Two days later, the carrier moored at the Norfolk Navy Yard to 
commence an overhaul that would last into 1942.
After departing Norfolk on 14 January 1942, WASP headed north and touched 
at Argentia, Newfoundland, and Casco Bay, Maine, while operating in those 
northern climes. On 16 March, as part of Task Group (TG) 22.6, she headed 
back toward Norfolk. During the morning watch the next day, visibility 
lessened considerably; and, At 0550, WASP's bow plunged into STACK's 
starboard side, punching a hole and completely flooding the destroyer's 
number one fireroom. STACK was detached and proceeded to the Philadelphia 
Navy Yard, where her damage was repaired.
WASP, meanwhile, made port at Norfolk on the 21st without further 
incident. Shifting back to Casco Bay three days later, she sailed for the 
British Isles on 26 March, with Task Force (TF) 39 under the command of 
Rear Admiral John w. Wilcox, Jr., 
in WASHINGTON (BB-56). That force was to reinforce the Home Fleet of the 
Royal Navy. While en route, Rear Admiral Wilcox was swept overboard from 
the battleship and drowned. Although hampered by poor visibility conditions, 
WASP planes took part in the search. Wilcox' body was spotted an hour later, 
face down in the raging seas, but it was not recovered.
Rear Admiral Robert C. Giffen, who flew his flag in Wichita, assumed 
command of TF-39. The American ships were met by a force based around 
the light cruiser HMS EDINBURGH on 8 April. Those ships escorted them to 
Scapa Flow in the Orkney Islands.
While the majority of TF 39 joined the British Home Fleet-being renumbered 
to TF 99 in the process-to cover convoys routed to North Russia, WASP 
departed Scapa Flow on 9 April, bound for the Clyde estuary and Greenock, 
Scotland. On the following day, the carrier sailed up the Clyde River, past 
the John Brown Clydebank shipbuilding facilities. There, shipyard workers 
paused long enough from their labors to accord WASP a tumultuous reception 
as she passed. WASP's impending mission was an important one-one upon 
which the fate of the island bastion of Malta hung. That key isle was then 
being pounded daily by German and Italian planes. The British, faced with the 
loss of air superiority over the island, requested the use of a carrier to 
transport planes that could wrest air superiority from the Axis aircraft. 
WASP drew ferry duty once again.
Having landed her torpedo planes and dive bombers, WASP loaded 47 
Supermarine "Spitfire" Mk. V fighter planes at the King George Dock, 
Glasgow, on l3 April, before she departed the Clyde estuary on the 14th. Her 
screen consisted of Force "W" of the Home Fleet-a group that included the 
battlecruiser HMS RENOWN and antiaircraft cruisers HMS CAIRO and HMS 
CHARBYDIS. MADISON (DD-426) and LANG (DD-399) also served in WASP's 
screen.
WASP and her consorts passed through the Straits of Gibraltar under cover 
of the pre-dawn darkness on 19 April, avoiding the possibility of being 
discovered by Spanish or Axis agents. At 0400 on 2O April, WASP spotted 11 
Grumman F4F-4 Wildcat fighters on her deck and quickly launched them to 
form a combat air patrol (CAP) over Force "W". Meanwhile, the "Spitfires" 
were warming up their engines in the hangar deck spaces below. With the 
Wildcats patrolling overhead, the Spitfires were brought up singly on the 
after elevator, spotted for launch, and then given the go-ahead to take off. 
One by one, they roared down the deck and over the forward rounddown, until 
each Spitfire was aloft and winging toward Malta.
When the launch was complete, WASP retired toward England, having safely 
delivered her charges. Unfortunately, those "Spitfires," which flew in to 
augment the dwindling numbers of "Gladiator" and "Hurricane" fighters, were 
tracked by efficient Axis intelligence and their arrival pinpointed. The 
unfortunate "Spitfires" were decimated by heavy German air raids which 
caught many planes on the ground.
As a result, it looked as if the acute situation required a second ferry run to 
Malta. Accordingly, Prime Minister Winston Churchill, fearing that Malta 
would be "pounded to bits," asked President Roosevelt to allow WASP to 
have "another good sting." Roosevelt responded in the affirmative. Rising to 
the occasion, WASP loaded another contingent of "Spitfire" V's and sailed 
for the Mediterranean on 3 May. Again, especially vigilant for submarines, 
WASP proceeded unmolested. This time, the British aircraft carrier HMS 
EAGLE accompanied WASP; and she, too, carried a contingent of Spitfires 
bound for the "unsinkable 
aircraft carrier," Malta.
The two Allied flattops reached their launching points early on Saturday, 9 
May, with WASP steaming in column ahead of EAGLE at a distance of 1,000 
yards. At 0630, WASP commenced launching planes-11 F4F-4's of VF-71 to 
serve as CAP over the task force. The first "Spitfire" roared down the deck 
at 0643, piloted by Sergeant-Pilot Herrington, but lost power soon after 
takeoff and plunged into the sea. Both pilot and plane were lost.
Undaunted by the loss of Herrington, the other planes flew off safely and 
formed up to fly to Malta. Misfortune, however, again seemed to dog. the 
flight, When one pilot accidentally released his auxiliary fuel tank as he 
climbed to 2,000 feet. He obviously could not make Malta, as the slippery 
tank fitted beneath the belly of the plane had increased the range of the 
plane markedly. With that gone, he had no chance of making the island. His 
only alternatives were to land back on board WASP or to ditch and take his 
chances in the water.
Sergeant-Pilot Smith chose the former. WASP bent on full speed and 
recovered the plane at 0749. The "Spitfire" came to a stop just 15 feet from 
the forward edge of the flight deck, making what one WASP sailor observed 
to be a "one wire" landing. With her vital errand completed, the carrier set 
sail for the British Isles while a German radio station broadcast the 
startling news that the American carrier had been sunk! Most in the Allied 
camp knew better, however; and, on 11 May, Prime Minister Churchill sent a 
witty message to the captain and ship's company of WASP: "Many thanks to 
you all for the timely help. Who said a WASP couldn't sting twice?"
While WASP was conducting those two important missions to Malta, a train 
of events far to the westward beckoned the carrier to the Pacific theater. 
Early in May, almost simultaneously with WASP's second Malta run-
Operation "Bowery"-the Battle of the Coral Sea had been fought. That action 
turned back the Japanese thrust at Port Moresby. One month later from 4 to 
6 June, an American carrier force smashed its Japanese counterpart in the 
pivotal Battle of Midway. These two victories cost the United States two 
precious carriers: LEXINGTON (CV-2) at Coral Sea and YORKTOWN (CV-5) at 
Midway. While the Japanese had suffered the damaging of two at Coral Sea 
and the loss of four carriers at Midway, the United States could scarcely 
afford to be left with only two operational carriers in the western and 
central Pacific-ENTERPRISE (CV-6) and HORNET (CV-8). SARATOGA (CV-3) 
was still undergoing repairs and modernization after being torpedoed off 
Oahu in early January 1942.
To prepare to strengthen the American Navy in the Pacific, WASP was 
hurried back to the United States for alterations and repairs at the Norfolk 
Navy Yard. During the carrier's stay in the Tidewater region, Capt. Reeves-
who had been promoted to flag rank-was relieved by Capt. Forrest P. 
Sherman on 31 May. Departing Norfolk on 6 June, the last day of the critical 
Battle of Midway, WASP sailed with TF 37 which was built around the 
carrier and the new battleship NORTH CAROLINA (BB-55) and escorted by 
QUINCY (CA-39) and SAN JUAN (CL-54) and a half-dozen destroyers. The 
group transited the Panama Canal on 10 June, at which time WASP and her 
consorts became TF 18, the carrier flying the two-starred flag of Rear 
Admiral Leigh Noyes.
Arriving at San Diego on 19 June, WASP embarked the remainder of her 
complement of aircraft, Grumman TBF-1's and Douglas SBD-3's10 of the 
former and 12 of the latter conducting their carrier qualification on 22 and 
23 June, respectively-the latter 
replacing the old Vindicators. On 1 July, she sailed for the Tonga Islands as 
part of the convoy for the five transports that had embarked the 2d Marine 
Regiment.
While TF 18 and the transports were en route to Tongatabu, WASP received 
another congratulatory message this time from Admiral Noyes, embarked in 
the ship. "During the two weeks my flag has been in WASP I have been very 
favorably impressed by the fine spirit of her ship's company and the way 
that all hands have handled their many problems. Since we have been at sea, 
every day has shown marked improvement in operations. I am sure that when 
our opportunity comes to strike the enemy in this ocean, WASP and her 
squadrons. will add more glory to the name she bears." Noyes' hopes were to 
be realized, but for all too brief a time.
Four days out of Nukualofa harbor, WASP developed serious engine trouble. 
The ship's "black gang," however, worked diligently to do the preliminary 
work in lifting, repairing, and replacing the ship's starboard high-pressure 
turbine, The work done en route substantially helped enough to allow speedy 
completion of the repairs after the ship dropped her hook at Tonga-tabu on 
18 July.
Meanwhile, preparations to invade the Solomon Islands were proceeding 
apace. Up to that point, the Japanese had been on the offensive, establishing 
their defensive perimeter around the edge of their "Greater East Asia Co-
Prosperity Sphere."
On 4 July, while WASP was en route to the South Pacific, the Japanese 
landed on Guadalcanal. Allied planners realized that if the enemy operated 
land-based aircraft from that key island, then it immediately imperiled 
Allied control of the New Hebrides and New Caledonia area. Rather than wait 
until the Japanese were firmly entrenched, they proposed to evict the 
Japanese before they got too deeply settled. Vice Admiral Robert L. 
Ghormley-who had attained a sterling record in London as Special Naval 
Observer-was detailed to take command of the operation; and he established 
his headquarters at Auckland, New Zealand. Since the Japanese had gotten a 
foothold on Guadalcanal, time was of the essence. Preparations for the 
invasion proceeded apace with the utmost secrecy and speed.
WASP-together with the carriers SARATOGA and ENTERPRISE-was assigned 
to the Support Force under Vice Admiral Frank Jack Fletcher. Under the 
tactical command of Rear Admiral Noyes, embarked in WASP, the carriers 
were to provide air support for the invasion. WASP and her airmen worked 
intensively practicing day and night operations to hone their skills to a high 
degree. Pilot qualification and training, necessitated by the ship's recent 
operations in the Atlantic and by the re-equipment of her air group and 
newer types of planes, proceeded at an intensive pace and, by the time the 
operations against Guadalcanal were pushed into high gear, Capt. Sherman 
was confident that his airmen could perform their mission. "D-day" had 
originally been set for 1 August, but the late arrival of some of the 
transports carrying marines pushed the date to 7 August.
WASP, screened by SAN FRANCISCO (CA-38), SALT LAKE CITY (CA-25), and 
four destroyers, steamed westward toward Guadalcanal on the evening of 6 
August until midnight. Then, she changed course to the eastward to reach 
her launch position 84 miles from Tulagi one hour before the first rays of 
sunlight crept over the horizon. A fresh breeze whipped across the carrier's 
darkened flight deck as the first planes were brought up to prepare for 
launch. The night offshore was bright, but clouds hung heavily 
over the assigned objective. So far, so good. No Japanese patrols had been 
spotted.
 At 0530, the first planes from WASP's air group barreled down the deck: 16 
F4F-4's under Lt. Comdr. Courtney Shands. Then, 15 SBD-3's under Lt. Comdr. 
John Eldridge, Jr. and the TBF-1 flown by the air group commander, Lt. 
Comdr. Wallace M. Beakley-fitted with a larger gasoline tank in its bomb bay 
to lengthen its time in the air-followed seven minutes later. At 0557, the 
first combat air patrol fighter took Off.
The early flights of F4F's and SBD's were assigned specific targets: Tulagi, 
Gavutu, Tanambogo, Halavo, Port Purvis, Haleta, Bungana, and the radio 
station dubbed "Asses' Ears." After taking off, the 16 Wildcats split up into 
sections and raced off to their respective hunting areas. At about 0600, the 
planes passed over the transport area off Lunga Point, as the ships were 
preparing to disembark their troops. In the pre-dawn darkness, the ships 
were almost invisible until the fighters passed directly over them. Soon, the 
fourth division of Shands' flight climbed to 5,000 feet above Tulagi to serve 
as CAP for the strafers. The third division broke off and headed for their 
target-Haleta before Shands took three planes around the northwest tip of 
Tulagi.
Shands and his wingman, Ens. S. W. Forrer, then swung down the north coast 
toward Gavatu. The other two headed for Tanambogo, to work over the 
seaplane facilities there. The Japanese appeared to be caught flat-footed, 
and the Grummans, arriving simultaneously at daybreak, shot up all of the 
patrol planes and fighter-seaplanes that were in the area. Fifteen Kawanishi 
flying boats and seven Nakajima floatplane fighters the seaplane derivative 
of the Mitsubishi "Zero"-were destroyed by Shands' fighters that flew 
almost "on the deck." Shands himself bagged at least four Nakajima single-
float fighter seaplanes and one four-engined flying boat. His wingman, 
Forrer, bagged three floatplane fighters and one patrol plane; Lt. Wright and 
Ens. Kenton bagged three patrol planes apiece and destroyed a motorboat 
apparently attempting to tend the flying boats; Ensigns Reeves and Conklin 
each bagged two and shared a fifth patrol plane between them. In addition, 
the strafing F4F's destroyed an aviation fuel truck and a truck loaded with 
spare parts.
The SBD's; too, laid their bombs "on the money." Post-attack assessment 
estimated that the antiaircraft and shore battery sites pinpointed by 
intelligence had been destroyed by the dive bombers in their first attack. So 
complete was the enemy's unpreparedness that none of WASP's planes was 
shot down. Only one plane from the 16 Grummans failed to return; and, in 
that case, its pilot, Ensign Reeves, put her down on board ENTERPRISE after 
having run low on fuel.
That was not all, however. At 0704, 12 Grumman TBF-1's, led by Lt. H. A. 
Romberg, rolled ponderously down the deck, loaded with bombs for use 
against land targets. Having encountered resistance, the initial landing 
forces called for help. Romberg's dozen Avengers blasted enemy troop 
concentrations east of the nob of land known as Hill 281, in the Makambo-
Sasapi sector, and the prison on Tulagi Island. "All enemy resistance," the 
official report later stated, was "apparently effectively silenced by this 
flight."
The first day's operations against Guadalcanai had proved successful. Some 
10,000 men had been put ashore there and met only slight resistance. On 
Tulagi, however, the Japanese 
resisted stoutly, retaining about one-fifth of the island by nightfall. WASP, 
SARATOGA, and ENTERPRISE, with their screens, retired to the southward at 
nightfall.
WASP returned the next morning, 8 August, to maintain a continuous CAP 
over the transport area until noon. These fighters were led by Lt. C. S. 
Moffett. Meanwhile, she also launched a scouting flight of 12 SBD-3's led by 
Lt. Comdr. E. M. Snowden. The Dauntlesses searched a sector to a radius of 
220 miles from their carrier, extending it to include all of the Santa Isabel 
Island and the New Georgia group.
The Dauntless pilots sighted nothing that morning and made no contact with 
the enemy during their two hours in the air. But that was soon to change for 
the flight leader. At 0815, Snowden sighted a "Rufe" some 40 miles from 
Rekata Bay and gave chase. The Japanese airman, seeing that he had been 
spotted, had no stomach for a fight. He pulled up and attempted to use the 
clouds for cover. Each time the dogged dive bomber pilot gunned the SBD-3 
after him: twice the "Rufe" headed for the clouds. Snowden finally pulled 
within close range, and, using his two fixed .50-caliber guns, fired a short 
burst that hit home, causing the "Rufe" to spin into the Solomon Sea.
Meanwhile, a large group of Japanese planes approached from Bougainville, 
apparently bent upon attacking the transports off Lunga Point. Upon learning 
of their approach, Rear Admiral Richmond K. Turner ordered all transports to 
get underway and to assume cruising disposition. The Americans accordingly 
cleared the decks for action. WASP's planes took part in the melee that 
followed-some planes by accident.
Lt. Comdr. Eldridge-again leading a formation of SDB-3's from VS-71-had 
led his planes' against Mbangi Island, off Tulagi, the site of some still 
fierce Japanese resistance. Eldridge's rear seat gunner, Aviation Chief 
Radioman L. A. Powers, suddenly spotted a formation of planes coming in 
from the northeast: but, thinking them to be a relief flight, Eldridge 
continued on his present course. The Americans did a double-take, however, 
and discovered that the planes were, in fact, enemy. At that instant, six 
"Zeroes" showed up and bounced the first section, but showed remarkably 
little skill in the attack, for they made 12 firing passes but could not down 
any of the Dauntlesses.
 Meanwhile, the leader of the last section of VS-71, Lt. (jg.) Robert L. 
Howard, spotted a cluster of twin-engined G4M1 "Betty" bombers heading for 
the American transports. Howard dove to the attack; but, in his excitement, 
failed to flip his armament switch to "on." After two runs during which his 
guns had failed to fire-thinking that the guns needed to be recharged he 
discovered his error-but too late to do anything about the Mitsubishi 
bombers. At that moment, four "zeroes," escorts for the bombers, attacked 
the single SBD.
Howard's rear gunner, Seaman 2d Class Lawrence P. Lupo, handled his twin 
30-caliber mount magnificently and kept the enemy fighters at arm's length, 
his bullets scoring several hits on them as well. After about eight passes, 
one "Zero" veered up sharply and made a head-on run that Howard met with 
simultaneous fire from his fixed .50's. The "Zero" caught fire like a flying 
tinder box, passed close aboard the Dauntless' left wing, and crashed in 
flames amidst the American landing craft far below. At the same time 
Howard was downing the "Zero" ahead, Seaman Lupo was firing on another 
"Zero" making an attack from the stern. Lupo kept the enemy away, but he 
had to shoot through his own plane's vertical stabilizer to do it. Eventually, 
the enemy 
tired of sporting with the SBD and retired to leave Howard and his squadron 
mates in VS-71 to return safely to their carrier.
 At 1807 on 8 August, Vice Admiral Frank Jack Fletcher recommended to 
Ghormley, at Noumea, that the air support force be withdrawn. Fletcher, 
concerned by the large numbers of enemy planes that had attacked on the 
8th, reported that he had only 78 fighters left (he had started with 99) and 
that fuel for the carriers was running low. Ghormley approved the 
recommendation, and WASP joined ENTERPRISE and SARATOGA in retiring 
from Guadalcanal. By midnight on 8 August, the landing had been a success, 
having attained the immediate objectives of the landing. All Japanese 
resistance-but a few snipers-on Gavutu and Tanombogo had been overcome. 
Early on 9 August, a Japanese surface force engaged an American one off 
Savo Island and retired at very little cost to themselves. The Allied force 
suffered loss of four heavy cruisers off Savo Island, including two that had 
served with WASP in the Atlantic: VINCENNES and QUINCY. The early and 
unexpected withdrawal of the support force, including WASP, when coupled 
with Allied losses in the Battle of Savo Island, jeopardized the success of 
the operation in the Solomons.
After the initial day's action in the Solomons campaign, the carrier spent 
the next month engaged in patrol and covering operations for convoys and 
resupply units headed for Guadalcanal. The Japanese, while reacting 
sluggishly to the initial thrust at Guadalcanal, soon began pouring 
reinforcements down to contest the Allied forces.
WASP was ordered south by Vice Admiral Fletcher to refuel and did not 
participate in the Battle of Eastern Solomons on 24 August 1942. That 
engagement cost the American force the use of the valuable ENTERPRISE. 
SARATOGA was torpedoed a week later and departed the South Pacific war 
zone for repairs as well. That left only two carriers in the southwest 
Pacific: HORNET which had been in commission for only a year-and WASP.
On Tuesday, 15 September, those two carriers and NORTH CAROLINAwith 10 
other warships-were escorting the transports carrying the 7th Marine 
Regiment to Guadalcanal as reinforcements. WASP had drawn the job of 
ready-duty carrier and was operating some 150 miles southeast of San 
Cristobal Island. Her gasoline system was in use, as planes were being 
refueled and rearmed for antisubmarine patrol missions; and WASP had been 
at general quarters from an hour before sunrise until the time when the 
morning search returned to the ship at 1000. Thereafter, the ship was in 
condition 2, with the air department at flight quarters. There was no 
contact with the enemy during the day, with the exception of a Japanese 
four-engined flying boat downed by a WASP Wildcat at 1215.
About 1420, the carrier turned into the wind to launch eight fighters and 18 
SBD-3's and to recover eight F4F-3's and three SBD's that had been airborne 
since before noon. The ship rapidly completed the recovery of the 11 planes; 
she then turned easily to starboard, the ship heeling slightly as the course 
change was made. The air department at flight quarters, as they had done in 
earlier operations, worked coolly at refueling and respotting the ship's 
planes for the afternoon mission. Suddenly, at 1444, a look-out called out, 
"three torpedoes . . . three points forward of the starboard beam!"
A spread of four torpedoes, fired from the tubes of the Japanese submarine 
I-19, churned inexorably closer. WASP put over her rudder hard-a-starboard, 
but it was too late. Two torpedoes 
smashed home in quick succession while a fourth passed ahead. Both hit in 
the vicinity of gasoline tanks and magazines.
In quick succession, fiery blasts ripped through the forward part of the ship. 
Aircraft on the flight and hangar decks were thrown about as if they were 
toys and dropped on the, deck with such force that landing gears snapped. 
Planes triced up in the hangar overheads fell and landed upon those on the 
hangar deck; fires broke out almost simultaneously in the hangar and below 
decks. Soon, the heat of the intense gasoline fires detonated the ready 
ammunition at the forward antiaircraft guns on the starboard side; and 
fragments showered the forward part of the ship. The number two 1.1-inch 
mount was blown overboard and the corpse of the gun captain was thrown 
onto the bridge where it landed next to Capt. Sherman.
Water mains in the forward part of the ship proved useless, since they had 
been broken by the force of the explosions. There was no water available to 
fight the conflagration forward; and the fires continued to set off 
ammunition, bombs, and gasoline. As the ship listed to starboard between 10 
and 15 degrees, oil and gasoline, released from the tanks by the torpedo hit, 
caught fire on the water.
Sherman slowed to 10 knots, ordering the rudder put to port to try to get the 
wind on the starboard bow; he then went astern with right rudder until the 
wind was on the starboard quarter, in an attempt to keep the fire forward. 
At that point, some flames made central station untenable, and 
communication circuits went dead. Soon, a serious gasoline fire broke out in 
the forward portion of the hanger; within 24 minutes of the initial attack, 
three additional major gasoline vapor explosions occurred. Ten minutes 
later, Capt. Sherman consulted with his executive officer, Comdr. Fred C. 
Dickey. The two men saw no course but to abandon, as all fire-fighting was 
proving ineffectual. The survivors would have to be gotten off quickly if 
unnecessary loss of life was not to be incurred.
Reluctantly, after consulting with Rear Admiral Noyes, Capt. Sherman 
ordered "abandon ship" at 1520. All badly injured men were lowered into 
rafts or rubber boats. Many unwounded men had to abandon from aft because 
the forward fires were burning with such intensity. The departure, as Capt. 
Sherman observed it, looked "orderly," and there was no panic. The only 
delays occurred when many men showed reluctance to leave until all the 
wounded had been taken off. The abandonment took nearly 40 minutes; and, 
at 1600-satisfied that no one was left on deck, in the galleries, or in the 
hangar aft-Capt. Sherman swung over the lifeline on the fantail and slid into 
the sea.
Although the submarine hazard caused the accompanying destroyers to lie 
well clear or to shift position, the "tin cans" carried out the rescue efforts 
with persistence and determination until LAFFEY (DD-469), LANSDOWNE (DD-
486), HELENA (CL-50), and SALT LAKE CITY had 1,946 men embarked. The 
abandoned ship drifted with her crew of remaining dead. The fires greedily 
traveled aft; four more violent explosions boomed as night began to fall. 
LANSDOWNE drew the duty of destruction, and she fired five torpedoes into 
the dying ship's fire-gutted hull. Three hit, but she remained afloat. By now, 
the orange flames had enveloped the stern. The carrier literally floated in a 
burning pool of gasoline and oil. She sank at 2100 by the bow.
WASP received two battle stars for her World War II service.
Transcribed and edited by:
Larry W. Jewell jewell@mace.cc.purdue.edu
