

SARATOGA CV-3
From: DICTIONARY OF AMERICAN NAVAL FIGHTING SHIPS, James L. 
Mooney, ed., Naval Historical Center, Department of the Navy, 
Washington, DC., 1976
displacement. 33,000
length. 888' 0"
beam. 106' 0"
draft 24' 1 1/2"
speed. 33.91 k.
complement. 2,111
armament 8 8", 12 5", 4 6-pdrs., 81 ac. 
class. LEXINGTON
The fifth SARATOGA (CV-3) was laid down on 25 September 1920 as Battle 
Cruiser #3 by the New York Shipbuilding Co., Camden, N.J., ordered converted 
to an aircraft carrier and reclassified CV-3 on 1 July 1922 in accordance 
with the Washington Treaty limiting naval armaments; launched on 7 April 
1925; sponsored by Mrs. Curtis D. Wilbur, wife of the Secretary of the Navy; 
and commissioned on 16 November 1927, Capt. Harry E. Yarnell in command.
SARATOGA, the first fast carrier in the United States Navy, quickly proved 
the value of her type. She sailed from Philadelphia on 6 January 1928 for 
shakedown; and, on 11 January, her air officer, the future world War II hero, 
Marc A. Mitscher, landed the first aircraft on board. In an experiment on 27 
January, the rigid airship LOS ANGELES (ZR-3) moored to SARATOGA's stern 
and took on fuel and stores. The same day, SARATOGA sailed for the Pacific 
via the Panama Canal, She was diverted briefly between 14 and 16 February 
to carry marines to Corinto, Nicaragua, and finally joined the Battle Fleet at 
San Pedro, California, on 21 February. The rest of the year was spent in 
training and final machinery shakedown.
On 15 January 1929, SARATOGA sailed from San Diego with the Battle Fleet 
to participate in her first fleet exercise, Fleet Problem IX. In a daring move, 
SARATOGA was detached from the fleet with only a single cruiser as escort 
to make a wide sweep to the south and "attack" the Panama Canal, which 
was defended by the Scouting Fleet and SARATOGA's sister ship, LEXINGTON. 
She successfully launched her strike on 26 January, and despite being "sunk" 
three times later in the day, proved the versatility of a fast task force 
centered around a carrier. The idea was incorporated into fleet doctrine and 
reused the following year in Fleet Problem X in the Caribbean. This time, 
however, SARATOGA and carrier, LANGLEY, were "disabled" by a surprise 
attack from LEXINGTON, showing how quickly air power could swing the 
balance in a naval action. Following the fleet concentration in the Caribbean, 
SARATOGA took part in the Presidential Review at Norfolk in May and 
returned to San Pedro on 21 June 1930.
During the remaining decade before World War II, SARATOGA exercised in 
the San Diego-San Pedro area, except for the annual fleet problems and 
regular overhauls at the Bremerton Navy Yard. In the fleet problems, 
SARATOGA continued to assist in the development of fast carrier tactics, 
and her importance was recognized by the fact that she was always a high 
priority target for the opposing forces. The fleet problem for 1932 was 
planned for Hawaii, and, by coincidence, occurred during the peak of the 
furor following the "Manchurian incident" in which Japan started on the road 
to World War II. SARATOGA exercised in the Hawaii area from 31 January to 
19 March and returned to 
Hawaii for fleet exercises the following year between 23 January and 28 
February 1933. On the return trip to the west coast, she launched a 
successful air "attack" on the Long Beach area.
Exercises in 1931 took SARATOGA to the Caribbean and the Atlantic for an 
extended period, from 9 April to 9 November, and were followed by equally 
extensive operations with the United States Fleet in the Pacific the 
following year. Between 27 April and 6 June 1936, she participated in a 
fleet problem in the Canal Zone, and she then returned with the fleet to 
Hawaii for exercises from 16 April to 28 May 1937. On 16 March 1938, 
SARATOGA sailed from San Diego for Fleet Problem XIX, again conducted off 
Hawaii. During the second phase of the problem, SARATOGA launched a 
surprise air attack on Pearl Harbor from a point 100 miles off Oahu, setting 
a pattern that the Japanese copied in December 1941. During the return to 
the west coast, SARATOGA and LEXINGTON followed this feat with "strikes" 
on Mare Island and Alameda. SARATOGA was under overhaul during the 1939 
fleet concentration; but, between 2 April and 21 June 1940, she participated 
in Fleet Problem XXI, the last to be held due to the deepening world crisis.
Between 14 and 29 October 1940, SARATOGA transported a draft of military 
personnel from San Pedro to Hawaii; and, on 6 January 1941, she entered the 
Bremerton Navy Yard for a long deferred modernization, including widening 
her flight deck forward and fitting a blister on her starboard side and 
additional small antiaircraft guns. Departing Bremerton on 28 April 1941, 
the carrier participated in a landing force exercise in May and made two 
trips to Hawaii between June and October as the diplomatic crisis-with 
Japan came to a head.
When the Japanese struck at Pearl Harbor on 7 December 1941, SARATOGA 
was just entering San Diego after an interim drydocking at Bremerton. She 
hurriedly got underway the following day as the nucleus of a third carrier 
force (LEXINGTON and ENTERPRISE were already at sea), carrying Marine 
aircraft intended to reinforce the vulnerable garrison on Wake Island. 
Presence of these aircraft on board made SARATOGA the logical choice for 
the actual relief effort. She reached Pearl Harbor on 15 December and 
stopped only long enough to fuel. She then rendezvoused with TANGIER (AV-
8), which had relief troops and supplies on board, while LEXINGTON and 
ENTERPRISE provided distant cover for the operation. However, the 
SARATOGA force was delayed by the low speed of its oiler and by a decision 
to refuel destroyers on 21 December. After receiving reports of Japanese 
carrier aircraft over the island and Japanese landings on it, the relief force 
was recalled on 22 December. Wake fell the next day, SARATOGA continued 
operations in the Hawaiian Island region; but, on 11 January 1942, when 
heading towards a rendezvous with ENTERPRISE, 500 miles southwest of 
Oahu, she was hit without warning by a deeprunning torpedo fired by 
Japanese submarine, I-16. Although six men were killed and three firerooms 
were flooded, the carrier reached Oahu under her own power. There, her 8-
inch guns, useless against aircraft, were removed for installation in shore 
defenses, and the carrier proceeded to the Bremerton Navy Yard for 
permanent repairs and installation of a modern antiaircraft battery.
SARATOGA departed Puget Sound on 22 May for San Diego. She arrived there 
on 25 May and was training her air group when intelligence was received of 
an impending Japanese assault on Midway. Due to the need to load planes and 
stores and to collect escorts, the carrier was unable to sail until 1 June and 
arrived at Pearl Harbor on the 6th after the Battle of Midway had ended. She 
departed Pearl Harbor on 7 June after fueling; and on 11 
June, transferred 34 aircraft to HORNET and ENTERPRISE to replenish their 
depleted air groups. The three carriers then turned north to counter 
Japanese activity reported in the Aleutians, but the operation was canceled 
and SARATOGA returned to Pearl Harbor on 18 June.
Between 22 and 29 June, SARATOGA ferried Marine and Army aircraft to the 
garrison on Midway. On 7 July, she sailed for the southwest Pacific; and, 
from 28 to 30 July, she provided air cover for landing rehearsals in the Fiji 
Islands in preparation for landings on Guadalcanal. As flagship of Real 
Admiral F. J. Fletcher, SARATOGA opened the Guadalcanal assault early on 7 
August when she turned into the wind to launch aircraft. She provided air 
cover for the landings for the next two days. On the first day, a Japanese air 
attack was repelled before it reached the carriers; but since further attacks 
were expected, the carrier force withdrew on the afternoon of 8 August 
towards a fueling rendezvous. As a result, it was too far away to retaliate 
after four Allied cruisers were sunk that night in the Battle of Savo Island. 
The carrier force continued to operate east of the Solomons, protecting the 
sealanes to the beachhead and awaiting a Japanese naval counterattack. The 
counterattack began to materialize when a Japanese transport force was 
detected on 23 August, and SARATOGA launched a strike against it. The 
aircraft were unable to find the enemy, however, and spent the night on 
Guadalcanal. As they were returning on board the next day, the first contact 
report on enemy carriers was received. Two hours later, SARATOGA launched 
a strike which sent Japanese carrier RYUJO to the bottom. Later in the 
afternoon, as an enemy strike from other carriers was detected, SARATOGA 
hastily launched the aircraft on her deck, and these found and damaged 
seaplane tender CHITOSE. Meanwhile, due to cloud cover, SARATOGA escaped 
detection by the Japanese aircraft, which concentrated their attack on, and 
damaged, ENTERPRISE. The American force fought back fiercely and 
weakened enemy air strength so severely that the Japanese recalled their 
transports before they reached Guadalcanal.
After landing her returning aircraft at night on 24 August, SARATOGA 
refueled on the 25th and resumed her patrols east of the Solomons. A week 
later, a destroyer reported torpedo wakes heading toward the carrier, but 
the 888-foot flattop could not turn quickly enough. A minute later, a torpedo 
from I-26 slammed into the blister on her starboard side. The torpedo killed 
no one and only flooded one fireroom, but the impact caused short circuits 
which damaged SARATOGA's turbo-electric propulsion system and left her 
dead in the water. Cruiser MINNEAPOLIS took the carrier under tow while 
she flew her aircraft off to shore bases. By early afternoon, SARATOGA's 
engineers had improvised a circuit out of the burned wreckage of her main 
control board and had given her a speed of 10 knots. After repairs at 
Tongatabu from 6 to 12 September, SARATOGA arrived at Pearl Harbor on 21 
September for permanent repairs.
SARATOGA sailed from Pearl Harbor on 10 November and proceeded, via Fiji, 
to Noumea which she reached on 5 December. She operated in the vicinity of 
Noumea for the next twelve months, providing air cover for minor operations 
and protecting American forces in the Eastern Solomons. Between 17 May 
and 31 July 1943, she was reinforced by the British carrier, VICTORIOUS; 
and, on 20 October, she was joined by PRINCETON (CVL-23). As troops 
stormed ashore on Bougainville on 1 November, SARATOGA's aircraft 
neutralized nearby Japanese airfields on Buka. Then, on 5 November, in 
response to reports of Japanese cruisers concentrating at Rabaul to 
counterattack the Allied landing forces, SARATOGA conducted perhaps her 
most brilliant strike of 
the war. Her aircraft penetrated the heavily defended port and disabled most 
of the Japanese cruisers, ending the surface threat to Bougainville. 
SARATOGA, herself, escaped unscathed and returned to raid Rabaul again on 
11 November.
SARATOGA and PRINCETON were then designated the Relief Carrier Group for 
the offensive in the Gilberts; and, after striking Nauru on 19 November, they 
rendezvoused on 23 November with the transports carrying garrison troops 
to Makin and Tarawa. The carriers provided air cover until the transports 
reached their destinations, and then maintained air patrols over Tarawa. By 
this time, SARATOGA had steamed over a year without repairs, and she was 
detached on 30 November to return to the United States. She underwent 
overhaul at San Francisco from 9 December 1943 to 3 January 1944, and had 
her antiaircraft battery augmented for the last time, receiving 60 40-
millimeter guns in place of 36 20-millimeter guns.
The carrier arrived at Pearl Harbor on 7 January, and, after a brief period of 
training, sailed from Pearl Harbor on 19 January with light carriers, 
LANGLEY and PRINCETON, to support the drive in the Marshalls. Her aircraft 
struck Wotje and Taroa for three days, from 29 to 31 January, and then 
pounded Engebi, the main island at Eniwetok, the 3d to the 6th and from the 
10th to the 12th of February. Her planes delivered final blows to Japanese 
defenses on the 16th, the day before the landings, and provided close air 
support and CAP over the island until 28 February.
SARATOGA then took leave of the main theaters of the Pacific war for 
almost a year, to carry out important but less spectacular assignments 
elsewhere. Her first task was to help the British initiate their carrier 
offensive in the Far East. On 4 March, SARATOGA departed Majuro with an 
escort of three destroyers, and sailed via Espiritu Santo; Hobart, Tasmania; 
and Fremantle, Australia; to join the British Eastern Fleet in the Indian 
Ocean. She rendezvoused at sea on 27 March with the British force, 
composed of carrier, ILLUSTRIOUS, and four battleships with escorts, and 
arrived with them at Trincomalee, Ceylon, on 31 March. On 12 April, the 
French battleship, RICHELIEU, arrived, adding to the international flavor of 
the force. During the next two days, the carriers conducted intensive 
training at sea during which SARATOGA's fliers tried to impart some of 
their experience to the British pilots. On 16 April, the Eastern Fleet, with 
SARATOGA, sailed from Trincomalee; and, on the 19th, the aircraft from the 
two carriers struck the port of Sabang, off the northwest tip of Sumatra. 
The Japanese were caught by surprise by the new offensive, and much 
damage was done to port facilities and oil reserves. The raid was so 
successful that SARATOGA delayed her departure in order to carry out a 
second. Sailing again from Ceylon on 6 May, the force struck at Soerabaja, 
Java, on 17 May with equally successful results. SARATOGA was detached 
the following day, and passed down the columns of the Eastern Fleet as the 
Allied ships rendered honors to and cheered each other.
SARATOGA arrived at Bremerton, Washington, on 10 June 1944 and was 
under repair there through the summer. On 24 September, she arrived at 
Pearl Harbor and commenced her second special assignment, training night 
fighter squadrons. SARATOGA had experimented with night flying as early as 
1931, and many carriers had been forced to land returning aircraft at night 
during the war; but, only in August 1944, did a carrier, INDEPENDENCE, 
receive an air group specially equipped to operate at night. At the same 
time, Carrier Division 11, composed of SARATOGA and RANGER (CV-4), was 
commissioned at Pearl Harbor to train night pilots and develop night flying 
doctrine. SARATOGA 
continued this important training duty for almost four months, but as early 
as October, her division commander was warned that "while employed 
primarily for training, SARATOGA is of great value for combat and is to be 
kept potentially available for combat duty." The call came in January 1945. 
Light carriers like INDEPENDENCE had proved too small for safe night 
operations, and SARATOGA was rushed out of Pearl Harbor on 29 January 
1945 to form a night fighter task group with ENTERPRISE for the Iwo Jima 
operation.
SARATOGA arrived at Ulithi on 7 February and sailed, three days later, with 
ENTERPRISE and four other carrier task groups. After landing rehearsals 
with marines at Tinian on 12 February, the carrier force carried out 
diversionary strikes on the Japanese home islands on the night of 16 and 17 
February before the landings on Iwo Jima. SARATOGA was assigned to 
provide fighter cover while the remaining carriers launched the strikes on 
Japan; but, in the process, her fighters raided two Japanese airfields. The 
force fueled on 18 and 19 February; and, on 21 February, SARATOGA was 
detached with an escort of three destroyers to join the amphibious forces 
and carry out night patrols over Iwo Jima and night heckler missions over 
nearby Chichi Jima. However, as she approached her operating area at 1700 
on the 21st, an air attack developed; and, taking advantage of low cloud 
cover and SARATOGA's insufficient escort, six Japanese planes scored five 
hits on the carrier in three minutes. SARATOGA's flight deck forward was 
wrecked, her starboard side was holed twice and large fires were started in 
her hangar deck, while she lost 123 of her crew dead or missing. Another 
attack at 1900 scored an additional bomb hit. By 2015, the fires were under 
control and the carrier was able to recover aircraft, but she was ordered to 
Eniwetok and then to the west coast for repairs, and arrived at Bremerton 
on 16 March.
On 22 May, SARATOGA departed Puget Sound fully repaired, and she resumed 
training pilots at Pearl Harbor on 3 June. She ceased training duty on 6 
September, after the Japanese surrender, and sailed from Hawaii on 9 
September transporting 3,712 returning naval veterans home to the United 
States under Operation "Magic Carpet." By the end of her "Magic Carpet" 
service, SARATOGA had brought home 29,204 Pacific War veterans, more 
than any other individual ship. At the time, she also held the record for the 
greatest number of aircraft landed on a carrier, with a lifetime total of 
98,549 landings in 17 years.
With the arrival of large numbers of ESSEX-class carriers, SARATOGA was 
surplus to postwar requirements, and she was assigned to Operation 
"Crossroads" at Bikini Atoll to test the effect of the atomic bomb on naval 
vessels. She survived the first blast, an air burst on 1 July, with only minor 
damage, but was mortally wounded by the second on 25 July, an underwater 
blast which was detonated under a landing craft 500 yards from the carrier. 
Salvage efforts were prevented by radioactivity, and seven and one-half 
hours after the blast, with her funnel collapsed across her deck, SARATOGA 
slipped beneath the surface if the lagoon. She was struck from the Navy list 
on 15 August 1946.
SARATOGA received seven battle stars for her World War II service.
Transcribed and edited by:
Larry W. Jewell
jewell@mace.cc.purdue.edu
