

From: DICTIONARY OF AMERICAN NAVAL FIGHTING SHIPS, James L. 
Mooney, ed., Naval Historical Center, Department of the Navy, 
Washington, DC., 1969
LEXINGTON (CV-2)
dp. 41,000;
l. 888';
b. 105' 6"
d. 32';
s. 34.25 k.;
cpl. 2,122;
a. 8 8", 12 5", 81 ac. 
class. LEXINGTON
The fourth LEXINGTON (CV-2) was originally designated CC-1; laid down as a 
battle cruiser 8 January 1921 by Fore River Shipbuilding Co., Quincy, Mass.; 
authorized to be completed as an aircraft carrier 1 July 1922; launched 3 
October 1925; sponsored by Mrs. Theodore Douglas Robinson, wife of the 
Assistant Secretary of the Navy; and commissioned 14 December 1927, Capt. 
Albert W. Marshall in command.
After fitting out and shakedown, LEXINGTON joined the battle fleet at San 
Pedro, Calif., 7 April 1928. Based there, she operated on the west coast with 
Aircraft Squadrons, Battle Fleet, in flight training, tactical exercises, and 
battle problems. Each year she participated in fleet  maneuvers in the 
Hawaiians, in the Caribbean, off the Panama Canal Zone, and in the eastern 
Pacific. In the fall of 1941 she sailed with the battle force to the Hawaiians 
for  tactical exercises.
On 7 December 1941 LEXINGTON was at sea with TF 12 carrying marine 
aircraft from Pearl Harbor to reinforce Midway when word of the Japanese 
attack on Pearl  Harbor was received. She immediately launched 
searchplanes to hunt for the Japanese fleet, and at midmorning headed south 
to rendezvous with INDIANAPOLIS and ENTERPRISE task forces to conduct a 
search southwest of Oahu until returning Pearl Harbor 18 December. 
LEXINGTON sailed next day to raid Japanese forces on Jaluit to relieve 
pressure on Wake; these orders were canceled 20 December, and she was 
directed to cover the SARATOGA for in reinforcing Wake. When the island 
fell 23 December, the two carrier forces were recalled to Pearl Harbor, 
arriving 27 December.
LEXINGTON patrolled to block enemy raids In the Oahu-JohnstonPalmyra 
triangle until 11 January 1942, when she sailed from Pearl Harbor as 
flagship for Vice Adm. Wilson Brown commanding TF 11. On 16 February, the 
force headed for an attack on Rabaul, New Britain, scheduled for 21 
February; while approaching the day previous, LEXINGTON was attacked by 
two waves of enemy aircraft, nine planes to a wave. The carrier's own  
combat air patrol and antiaircraft fire splashed 17 of the attackers. During 
a single sortie Lt. E. H (Butch) O'Hare won the Medal of Honor by downing five 
planes.
Her offensive patrols in the Coral Sea continued until 6 March, when she 
rendezvoused with YORKTOWN's TF 17 for a thoroughly successful surprise 
attack flown over the Owen Stanley mountains of New Guinea to inflict 
heavy damage on shipping and installations at Salamaua and Lae 10 March. 
She now returned to Pearl Harbor, arriving 26 March.
LEXINGTON's task force sortied from Pearl Harbor 15 April, rejoining TF 17 
on 1 May. As Japanese fleet  concentrations threatening the Coral Sea were 
observed, LEXINGTON and YORKTOWN moved into the sea to search for the 
enemy's force covering a projected troop movement; the Japanese must now 
be blocked in their southward expansion, or sea communication with 
Australia and New Zealand would be cut, and the dominions threatened with 
invasion.
On 7 May searchplanes reported contact with an enemy carrier task force, 
and LEXINGTON's air group flew an eminently 
successful mission against it, sinking light  carrier SHOHO. Later that day, 
12 bombers and 15 torpedo planes from stillunlocated heavy carriers 
SHOKAKU and ZUIKAKU were intercepted by fighter groups from  LEXINGTON 
and YORKTOWN, who splashed nine enemy aircraft.
On the morning of the 8th, a LEXINGTON plane located SHOKAKU group; a 
strike was immediately launched from the American carriers, and the 
Japanese ship heavily damaged.
The enemy penetrated to the American carriers at 1100, and 20 minutes 
later LEXINGTON was struck by a torpedo to port. Seconds later, a second 
torpedo hit to port directly abreast the bridge. At the same time, she took 
three bomb hits from enemy dive bombers, producing a 7 degree list to port 
and several raging fires. By 1300 her skilled  damage control parties had 
brought the fires under control and returned the ship to even keel; making 25 
knots, she was ready to recover her air group. Then suddenly  LEXINGTON was 
shaken by a tremendous explosion, caused by the ignition of gasoline vapors 
below, and again fire raged out of control. At 1558 Capt. Frederick C. 
Sherman,  fearing for the safety of men working below, secured salvage 
operations, and ordered all hands to the flight deck. At 1707, he ordered, 
"abandon ship!", and the orderly  disembarkation began, men going over the 
side into the warm water, almost immediately to be picked up by nearby 
cruisers and destroyers. Admiral Fitch and his staff  transferred to cruiser 
Minneapolis; Captain Sherman and his executive officer, Comdr. M. T. 
Seligman insured all their men were safe, then were the last to leave their 
ship. LEXINGTON blazed on, flames shooting hundreds of feet into the air, 
Destroyer PHELPS closed to 1500 yards and fired two torpedoes into her 
hull; with one last heavy  explosion, the gallant LEXINGTON sank at 1956, in 
15 d. 20'S., 155 d. 30'E. She was part of the price that was paid to halt the 
Japanese overseas empire and safeguard Australia and New Zealand, but 
perhaps an equally great  contribution had been her pioneer role in 
developing the naval aviators and the techniques which played so vital a role 
in ultimate victory in the Pacific.
LEXINGTON received two battle stars for World War II service. Transcribed 
and edited by:
Larry W. Jewell
jewell@mace.cc.purdue.edu
