

RANGER CV-4
From: DICTIONARY OF AMERICAN NAVAL FIGHTING SHIPS, James L. 
Mooney, ed., Naval Historical Center, Department of the Navy, 
Washington, DC., 1976
displacement. 14,500
length. 769'
beam. 81' 8"
extreme width. 86'
draft. 19' 8''
speed. 29.25 k.
complement. 1,788
armament. 8 5" 
class. RANGER
The sixth RANGER (CV-4), the first ship of the Navy to be designed and built 
from the keel up as an aircraft carrier, was laid down 26 September 1931 
by Newport News Shipbuilding & Drydock Co., Newport News, Va.; launched 
25 February 1933; sponsored by Mrs. Herbert Hoover; and commissioned at 
the Norfolk Navy Yard 4 June 1934, Capt. Arthur L, Bristol in command,
RANGER conducted her first air operations off Cape Henry 6 August 1934 and 
departed Norfolk the 17th for a shakedown training cruise that took her to 
Rio de Janeiro, Buenos Aires, and Montevideo. She returned to Norfolk 4 
October for operations off the Virginia Capes until 28 March 1935, when she 
sailed for the Pacific. Transiting the Panama Canal on 7 April, she arrived 
San Diego on the 15th. For nearly 4 years, she participated in fleet problems 
reaching to Hawaii, and in western seaboard operations that took her as far 
south as Callao, Peru, and as far north as Seattle, Wash. On 4 January 1939, 
she departed San Diego for winter fleet operations in the Caribbean out of 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, She then steamed north to Norfolk, Va., arriving 18 
April.
RANGER cruised along the eastern seaboard out of Norfolk and into the 
Caribbean Sea. In the fall of 1939, she commenced Neutrality Patrol 
operations, operating out of Bermuda along the trade routes of the middle 
Atlantic and up the eastern seaboard up to Argentia, Newfoundland. She was 
returning to Norfolk from an ocean patrol extending to Port-of-Spain, 
Trinidad, when the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor. Arriving Norfolk 8 
December, she sailed on the 21st for patrol in the South Atlantic. She then 
entered the Norfolk Navy Yard for repairs 22 March 1942.
 RANGER served as flagship of Rear Adm. A. B. Cook, Commander, Carriers, 
Atlantic Fleet, until 6 April 1942, when he was relieved by Rear Adm. Ernest 
D. McWhorter, who also broke his flag in RANGER.
Steaming to Quonset Point, R.I., RANGER loaded 68 Army P-40 planes and 
men of the Army's 33d Pursuit Squadron, put to sea 22 April, and launched 
the Army squadron 10 May to land at Accra, on the Gold Coast of Africa. She 
returned to Quonset Point 28 May 1942, made a patrol to Argentia, then 
stood out of Newport 1 July with 72 Army P-40 pursuit planes, which she 
launched off the coast of Africa for Accra the 19th. After calling at 
Trinidad, she returned to Norfolk for local battle practice until 1 October, 
then based her training at Bermuda in company with four escort aircraft 
carriers that had been newly converted from tankers to meet the need for 
naval air power in the Atlantic.
The only large carrier in the Atlantic Fleet, RANGER led the task force 
comprising herself and four SANGAMON-class escort carriers that provided 
air superiority during the amphibious invasion of German dominated French 
Morocco which commenced the morning of 8 November 1942.
It was still dark at 0615 that day, when RANGER, stationed 30 miles 
northwest of Casablanca, began launching her aircraft to support the 
landings made at three points on the Atlantic coast of North Africa. Nine of 
her Wildcats attacked the Rabat and Rabat-Sale airdromes, headquarters of 
the French air forces in Morocco. Without loss to themselves, they destroyed 
seven planes on one field, and 14 bombers on the other. Another flight 
destroyed seven planes on the Port Lyautey field. Some of RANGER's planes 
strafed four French destroyers in Casablanca Harbor while others strafed 
and bombed nearby batteries,
The carrier launched 496 combat sorties in the 3-day operation. Her attack 
aircraft scored two direct bomb hits on the French destroyer leader 
ALBATROS, completely wrecking her forward half and causing 300 
casualties. They also attacked French cruiser PRIMAUGUT as she sortied 
from Casablanca Harbor, dropped depth charges within lethal distance of 
two submarines, and knocked out coastal defense and anti-aircraft 
batteries. They destroyed more than 70 enemy planes on the ground and shot 
down 15 in aerial combat. But 16 planes from RANGER were lost or damaged 
beyond repair. It was estimated that 21 light enemy tanks were immobilized 
and some 86 military vehicles destroyed-most of them troop-carrying 
trucks.
Casablanca capitulated to the American invaders 11 November 1942 and 
RANGER departed the Moroccan coast 12 November, returning to Norfolk, Va., 
on the 23d.
Following training in Chesapeake Bay, the carrier underwent overhaul in the 
Norfolk Navy Yard from 16 December 1942 to 7 February 1943. She next 
transported 75 P-40-L Army pursuit planes to Africa, arriving Casablanca 
on 23 February; then patrolled and trained pilots along the New England 
coast steaming as far north as Halifax, Nova Scotia. Departing Halifax 11 
August, she joined the British Home Fleet at Scapa Flow, Scotland, 19 
August, and patrolled the approaches to the British Isles.
RANGER departed Scapa Flow with the Home Fleet 2 October to attack 
German shipping in Norwegian waters. The objective of the force was the 
Norwegian port of Bodo. The task force reached launch position off 
Vestfjord before dawn 4 October completely undetected. At 061 8, RANGER 
launched 20 Dauntless dive bombers and an escort of eight Wildcat fighters. 
One division of dive bombers attacked the 8,000-ton freighter LAPLATA, 
while the rest continued north to attack a small German convoy. They 
severely damaged a 10,000-ton tanker and a smaller troop transport. They 
also sank two of four small German merchantmen in the Bodo roadstead.
A second RANGER attack group of 10 Avengers and six Wildcats destroyed a 
German freighter and a small coaster and bombed yet another troop-laden 
transport. Three RANGER planes were lost to antiaircraft fire. On the 
afternoon of 4 October, RANGER was finally located by three German 
aircraft, but her combat air patrol shot down two of the enemy planes and 
chased off the third.
RANGER returned to Scapa Flow 6 October 1943. She patrolled with the 
British Second Battle Squadron in waters reaching to 
Iceland, and then departed Hvalfjord on 26 November, arriving Boston 4 
December. On 3 January 1944, she became a training carrier out of Quonset 
Point, R.I. This duty was interrupted 20 April when she arrived at Staten 
Island, N.Y., to load 76 P-38 fighter lanes together with Army, Navy, and 
French Naval personnel for transport to Casablanca. Sailing 24 April, she 
arrived Casablanca 4 May. There she onloaded Army aircraft destined for 
stateside repairs and embarked military passengers for the return to New 
York.
Touching at New York 16 May, RANGER then entered the Norfolk Navy Yard to 
have her flight deck strengthened and for installation of a new type 
catapult, radar, and associated gear that provided her with a capacity for 
night fighter interceptor training. On 11 July 1944 she departed Norfolk, 
transited the Panama Canal 5 days later, and embarked several hundred 
Army passengers at Balboa for transportation to San Diego, arriving there 
25 July.
After embarking the men and aircraft of Night Fighting Squadron 102 and 
nearly a thousand marines, she sailed for Hawaiian waters 28 July, reaching 
Pearl Harbor 3 August. During the next 3 months she conducted night carrier 
training operations out of Pearl Harbor.
RANGER departed Pearl Harbor 18 October to train pilots for combat duty. 
Operating out of San Diego under Commander, Fleet Air, Alameda, she 
continued training air groups and squadrons along the California coast 
throughout the remainder of the war.
Departing San Diego 30 September 1945, she embarked civilian and military 
passengers at Balboa and then steamed for New Orleans, arriving 18 October. 
Following Navy Day celebrations there, she sailed 3O October for brief 
operations at Pensacola. After calling at Norfolk, she entered the 
Philadelphia Naval Shipyard 18 November for overhaul. She remained on the 
eastern seaboard until decommissioned at the Norfolk Naval Shipyard 18 
October 1946. Struck from the Navy list 29 October 1946, she was sold for 
scrap to Sun Shipbuilding & Drydock Co., Chester, Pa., 28 January 1947.
RANGER received two battle stars for World War II service.
Transcribed and edited by:
Larry W. Jewell
jewell@mace.cc.purdue.edu
