

From: Dictionary of American Fighting Ships, Vol. III, 1968, NavyDepartment, 
Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, Naval HistoryDivision, Washington, 
D.C.INDEPENDENCE (CV-22)
dp. 11,000;l. 622' 6";b. 71' 6";ew. 109' 2";dr. 26';s. 31 k.;a. 26 40-mm;cl. 
INDEPENDENCEThe fourth INDEPENDENCE (CV-22), begun as AMSTERDAM, (CL-59), 
waslaunched as CV-22 on 22 August 1942 by New York Shipbuilding Corp.,Camden, 
N.J.; sponsored by Mrs. Rawleigh Warner; and commissioned 14January 1943, 
Captain G. R. Fairlamb, Jr., in command.Page 427The first of a new class of 
carriers converted from cruiser hulls,INDEPENDENCE conducted shakedown training 
in the Caribbean. She thensteamed through the Panama Canal to join the Pacific 
Fleet, arriving SanFrancisco 3 July 1943. INDEPENDENCE got underway for Pearl 
Harbor 14July, and after 2 weeks of vital training exercises sailed with 
carriersESSEX and YORKTOWN for a devastating raid on Marcus Island. Planes 
fromthe carrier force struck 1 September and destroyed over 70 percent ofthe 
installations on the island. The carrier began her next operation, asimilar strike 
against Wake Island 5 to 6 October as CVL-22,redesignated 15 July 
1943.INDEPENDENCE sailed from Pearl Harbor for Espiritu Santo 21 October,and, 
during an ensuing carrier attack on Rabaul 11 November, the ship'sgunners scored 
their first success-six Japanese planes shot down Afterthis operation the carrier 
refueled at Espiritu Santo and headed for theGilberts and prelanding strikes on 
Tarawa 18 to 20 November 1943. Duringa Japanese counterattack 20 November, 
INDEPENDENCE was attacked by agroup of planes low on the water. Six were shot 
down, but the planesmanaged to launch at least five torpedoes one of which scored 
a hit onthe carrier's starboard quarter. Seriously damaged, the ship steamed 
toFunafuti 23 November for repairs. With the Gilberts operation, firststep on the 
mid-Pacific road to Japan, underway, INDEPENDENCE returnedto San Francisco 2 
January 1944 for more permanent repairs.The veteran carrier returned to Pearl 
Harbor 3 July 144. During herrepair period the ship had been fitted with an 
additional catapult, andupon her arrival in Hawaiian waters, INDEPENDENCE began 
training fornight carrier operations. She continued this pioneering work 24 to 
29August out of Eniwetok. The ship sailed with a large task group 29August to 
take part in the Palaus operation, aimed at securing bases forthe final assault on 
the Philippines in October. INDEPENDENCE providednight reconnaissance and night 
combat air patrol for Task Force 38during this operation.In September the fast 
carrier task force regularly pounded thePhilippines in preparation for the invasion. 
When no Japanesecounterattacks developed in this period, INDEPENDENCE shifted to 
regulardaytime operations, striking targets on Luzon. After replenishment atUlithi 
in early October, the great force sortied 6 October for Okinawa.In the days that 
followed the carriers struck Okinawa, Formosa, andPhilippines in a striking 
demonstration of the mobility and balance ofthe fleet. Japanese air counterattacks 
were repulsed, with INDEPENDENCEproviding day strike groups in addition to night 
fighters andreconnaissance aircraft for defensive protection.As the carrier groups 
steamed east of the Philippines 23 October, itbecame apparent, as Admiral Carney 
later recalled, that "something on agrand scale was underfoot." And indeed it was, 
as the Japanese fleetmoved on a three pronged effort to turn back the American 
beachhead onLeyte Gulf. Planes from INDEPENDENCE's Task Group 38.2, under 
RearAdmiral Bogan, spotted Kurita's striking force in the Sibuyan Sea 24October 
and the carriers launched a series of attacks. Planes fromINDEPENDENCE and other 
ships sank giant battleship MUSASHI and disableda cruiser.That evening Admiral 
Halsey made his fateful decision to turn Task Force38 northward in search of 
Admiral Ozawa's carrier group. INDEPENDENCE'snight search planes made contact 
and shadowed the Japanese ships untildawn 26 October, when the carriers 
launched a massive attack. In thissecond part of the great Battle for Leyte Gulf, 
all four Japanesecarriers were sunk. Meanwhile American heavy ships had won a 
greatvictory in Suriago Strait; and a light carrier force had outfought 
theremainder of Kurita's ships in the Battle Off Samar. After the greatbattle, 
which virtually spelled the end of the Japanese Navy as a majorthreat, 
INDEPENDENCE continued to provide search planes and nightfighter protection for 
Task Force 38 in strikes on the Philippines. Inthese operations the ship had 
contributed to a major development incarrier group operations.INDEPENDENCE 
returned to Ulithi for long-delayed rest and replenishment9 to 14 November, but 
soon got underway to operate off the Philippineson night attacks and defensive 
operations. This phase continued until 30December 1944, when the great task 
force sortied from Ulithi once moreand moved northward. From 3 to 9 January the 
carriers supported theLingayen landings on Luzon, after which Halsey took his 
fleet on adaring foray into the South China Sea. In the days that followed 
theaircraft struck at air bases on Formosa and on the coasts of Indo-Chinaand 
China. These operations in support of the Philippines campaignmarked the end of 
the carrier'sPage 428night operations, and she sailed 30 January 1945 for repairs 
at PearlHarbor.INDEPENDENCE returned to Ulithi 13 March 1945 and got underway 
net dayfor operations against Okinawa, last target in the Pacific before 
Japanitself. She carried out preinvasion strikes 30 to 31 March, and afterthe 
assault 1 April remained off the island supplying Combat Air Patroland strike 
aircraft. Her planes shot down numerous enemy planes duringthe desperate 
Japanese attacks on the invasion force. INDEPENDENCEremained off Okinawa until 
10 June when she sailed for Leyte.During July and August the carrier took part in 
the final carrierstrikes against Japan itself, attacks which lowered enemy morale 
and hadmuch to do with the eventual surrender. After the end of the war 15August, 
INDEPENDENCE aircraft continued surveillance flights over themainland locating 
prisoner of war camps, and covered the landings ofAllied occupation troops. The 
ship departed Tokyo 22 September 1945,arriving San Francisco via Saipan and 
Guam 31 October.INDEPENDENCE joined the "Magic-Carpet" fleet beginning 15 
November 1945,transporting veterans back to the United States until arriving 
SanFrancisco once more 28 January 1946. Assigned as a target vessel for theBikini 
atomic bomb tests, she was placed within one-half mile of groundzero for the 1 
July explosion. The veteran ship did not sink, however,and after taking part in 
another explosion 25 July was taken toKwajalein and decommissioned 28 August 
1946. The highly radioactive hulkwas later taken to Pearl Harbor and San Francisco 
for further tests andwas finally sunk in weapons tests off the coast of California 
29 January1951.INDEPENDENCE received eight battle stars for World War II 
service.EXCERPT FROM ACTION REPORT ON OPERATION "STALEMATE II"Subject: 
Action Report on Stalemate II....those of routine patrols, CAP and ASP. Plans to 
conduct night heckleroperations and night attacks on shipping failed to 
materialize due tocomplete lack of suitable targets.  Opportunities to utilize this 
groupof highly trained specialists in night operations were non-existentexcept for 
occasional pre-dawn take-offs and occasional landings aftersunset by the CAP....5. 
During the period 19 thru 24 September, the Fighting Squadron of theINDEPENDENCE 
took part in the highly successful attacks on Luzon and onCoron Bay. In these 
operations, the INDEPENDENCE group lost its identityas a night operating 
organization and performed all the functions of thenormal CVL group in a highly 
creditable manner, this in spite of thefact that previous training had entirely 
overlooked training in fightingplane tactics and had concentrated upon the training 
required by theindividual for night interceptions and for individual gunnery....7. On 
the evening of 12 September, VF 41 had its one opportunity todemonstrate its 
proficiency in its specialty by successfullyintercepting and splashing a Dinah 
after a chase of 69 miles whichinvolved a rapid climb to 23,000 feet. The return 
to the ship after darkand subsequent landing of 4 VF was completed in an 
expeditious manner.

