Copyright 1994, 1995 by Adam C. Stacey
This story is written for pure pleasure and is not intended to
infringe on any preexisting copyrights that may be violated.
Respect the author's work and do not use this to seek profit.
This message must be accompanied with all redistributions.
The author can be reached at Michigan State University (92-96)
Email ID: stacey@student.msu.edu
_________________________________________________________________

There are those who believe that life here began out there, far
across the universe, with tribes of humans who may have been the
forefathers of the Egyptians, or the Toltecs, or the Mayans.
That they may have been the architects of the great pyramids, or
the lost civilizations of Lemuria or Atlantis.

Some believe that there may yet be brothers of man who even now
fight to survive, somewhere beyond the heavens. . .



                      BATTLESTAR GALACTICA

                            starring

                          Richard Hatch
                          Dirk Benedict
                               and
                      Lorne Greene as Adama

                           A HERO LOST

                          also starring
                       Herb Jefferson, Jr.
                          Maren Jensen
                          John Colicos
                          Noah Hathaway
                         Laurette Spang
                           Tony Swartz
                          Anne Lockhart
                               and
                       special guest star
                    Fred Astaire as Chameleon

                           Written by

                         Adam C. Stacey


                  Based on Battlestar Galactica

                           Created by

                         Glen A. Larson


     Starbuck evaded yet another Cylon Raider as a second one
rushed at him firing point blank.  Miraculously, he was able to
avoid certain destruction and destroy the enemy before the
machine warriors had a second chance to kill him.
     "If we don't get help soon there won't be anyone left to
help," muttered Starbuck over his comlink to his fellow warriors.
     Starbuck kept on fighting but he couldn't help feeling as if
this battle was different.  Maybe it was because Apollo wasn't
out here in field command anymore.  He missed his old Captain's
bravery and leadership skills especially at times like these.
The other reason could be that Boomer was commanding a squadron
far away so that neither of his two best friends were fighting
beside him.
     His Viper was rocked by another blast as he turned his ship
around to retaliate.  A few quick volleys from his turbolasers
and the Cylon Raider erupted in a dazzling explosion.
     "Starbuck. . ." said another voice over his communications
panel.
     "Hang on, Cree.  I'm on my way."
     Starbuck maneuvered his Viper in the direction of the young
ensign who was in need of assistance.  Sweat dripped down his
forehead as he willed more thrust out of his machine.  Cree held
a special place in his heart since he had saved that young man
from the torture chambers of a Cylon outpost on a remote ice
planet.  Starbuck had been in command of a survey mission that
had included three young cadets fresh out of the boot camp that
had been created to train new warriors.  Two of those cadets had
never returned to the Galactica, destroyed by a deadly pulsar
canon operated by the Cylons.  Cree had crashed landed and been
captured.  When Starbuck had returned with a demolitions team to
take out the canon before it could destroy the fleet, he had
personally rescued Cree.  Now that same man was being chased down
by a Cylon Raider.
     Starbuck spotted Cree's Viper in the distance and closed in,
taking aim on the pursuing Cylon ship.  Microns before the Cylon
was in range to destroy Cree's fighter, Starbuck fired a single
volley of laserfire and detonated the enemy vessel into a million
pieces.
     "Thanks, Starbuck."
     "You can thank me by staying with your wingmate, Ensign!"
said Starbuck a little more harshly than he wanted.  "She looks
like she's in trouble."
     "Yes, sir," returned the young warrior as he peeled off to
aid his partner.
     Starbuck looked around at the chaos and contacted the
Galactica.  "Red Leader to Galactica.  I need reinforcements.
Situation is urgent!  I repeat urgent!"
     "Reinforcements are on the way," came the curt voice of
Flight Sergeant Rigel.  "Maintain your position until help
arrives."
     "Acknowledged," grunted Starbuck as he looked around at the
battle.  Another few centons and there won't be anyone to help,
thought Starbuck for the third time in as many centons.

     "Red Squadron requests assistance," said Rigel to Colonel
Apollo who was on the command deck next to his father.
     "Father, if we don't help them they won't survive."  Apollo
knew that Starbuck was in command of that squadron and
desperately needed help.
     Adama stood there and evaluated the situation from a
tactical viewpoint, looking for the path to victory.  Their
forces had been split in two by a Cylon rouse with Boomer being
lead far away from the fleet while Starbuck's squadron was
surrounded.  Silver Spar squadron was on a mission of their own
so Captain Bojay couldn't help them.  Boomer's team would not
arrive for another few centons but Starbuck didn't have that much
time.  Adama came to a decision that he had hoped he would not be
forced to make.
     "Lieutenant Athena, assemble all fighter pilots that are
combat ready and report to the launch bay."
     Athena looked up from her communications board and barely
restrained herself from shouting.  "Yes, sir!" she said
enthusiastically and made her way to the launch bay.  She didn't
celebrate to loudly because she knew that Apollo was suffering at
that moment, not being allowed to go to his friend's aid.
     Adama saw the look on his son's face as Apollo barely
restrained his anger.  "I'm sorry, son.  But you're needed on the
bridge.  Your place is here at my side just as it was Tigh's."
     Apollo cooled himself down as he let go of the railing in
front of him releasing his hands from their tight grip.  "Yes,
sir," he replied, conveying his obvious disappointment.

     "Transferring launch control to Viper pilots.  Reserve
Squadron launch when ready," came Rigel's voice over the comlink
as Athena catapulted out of the Galactica at breakneck speed.
Her team soon joined her and she lead her squadron in the
direction of Starbuck's last known coordinates.
     While Athena waited in her cockpit, she began to think of
another name besides 'Reserve Squadron' to name her team.  They
needed an identity just like Blue or Silver Spar squadrons had
there's.  Her proximity indicator went off and Athena knew they
were coming up on the battle scene.
     "Flight Leader to squadron.  Let's kick those Cylons back to
where they came from!"
     The warriors dove their Vipers into the battle and engaged
the Cylons who were having their way with the Colonial warriors.
Athena scanned the area to locate Starbuck but couldn't see him
anywhere.  Even though their relationship had ended a long time
ago, she still felt attached to the brash young warrior and
wanted to know if she had made it in time.
     "Starbuck, where are you?"
     "Athena?  What are you doing out here?" came back the
lieutenant's voice.
     "Saving your rear, Lieutenant."
     She saw his ship off in the distance shooting down another
Raider in his path.
     "Nice shooting, bucko!" she hollered, using Boomer's pet
name for his friend.
     Starbuck swung his Viper around in her direction when he saw
three Cylon Raiders form up and maneuver straight at her.
     "Athena, look out!"
     Athena barely had time to heed the warning when the trio of
Cylons opened fire.  She managed to avoid the first barrage and
dove her Viper away from the Raiders at full turbos.
     Starbuck rolled his fighter over in pursuit of the machine
warriors chasing down Athena.  Lining them up in his sights he
activated his lasers and destroyed two Cylon warships in the
first volley.  Athena changed course at that instant to elude her
remaining pursuer but the Cylon Raider continued to bear down on
her craft.  Starbuck followed the last Cylon ship.  The Raider
closed in to firing range and Starbuck prepared to vaporize it
when he saw a second Raider coming at him from the corner of his
eye.
     "Oh, frack," he muttered as he shot down the Cylon in front
of him, refusing to abandon Athena.
     Starbuck knew he was doomed but tried to avoid certain death
anyway.  The Cylon fired and obliterated his Viper's left wing
and port side engine.  Miraculously, his ship did not explode as
Starbuck fought valiantly to control his spinning craft.  The
Raider prepared to finish him off when Blue Squadron arrived and
chalked up the Cylon as their first kill.
     "Boomer," said Athena after recovering from her near death
experience.  "Do you see Starbuck?  He took out three Cylons that
were after me."
     Boomer looked around and couldn't see his buddy anywhere.
"Starbuck?  Starbuck where are you?"
     Nothing responded to his hail as Boomer tried again.  Then a
voice broke through with heavy static.
     ". . .Boomer. . .tell Cassiopeia. . ."
     The voice ended and Boomer saw an explosion in the distance.
Silence filled the communication waves until Athena's barely
controlled voice came over the comlink.
     "Boomer. . .is Starbuck. . .," she said unable to finish the
sentence.
     "I don't know, Athena.  I heard his voice and then I saw an
explosion."
     "He could still be alive then.  We'll form a search team,"
she said confidently.
     "Athena, the Cylons know we're here.  We can't stay or
they'll throw everything they can at us," said Boomer in his
reasoning tone of voice.  "The Cylons are running, we're being
called back."
     "But we just can't leave him here," pleaded Athena.
     "Don't worry.  If I know Starbuck he'll have beat us back to
the Galactica and have already had his first mug of ambrosa by
the time we get back," said Boomer less than confidently.
     "Let's go home," he said finally after another eerie period
of silence.  The Colonial Vipers headed back for the Galactica
with no one seeing the tears streaming down Boomer's face as he
flew back, abandoning his friend to the void.

     "All squadrons returning to the Galactica, sir," said Rigel
to Colonel Apollo.
     "Good," said Adama overhearing the report.  "Once their
aboard bring the fleet up to maximum speed on a course 15 degrees
of our original heading."
     "Sir," said Omega.  "Blue Leader reports five casualties and
one missing in action."
     "Missing in action?" said Adama curiously.  There were few
times when a warrior met his end without anyone to verify it.
"Who?"
     "Lieutenant Starbuck," replied Omega gravely.
     "Good lord," muttered Adama as he the gravity of the young
warrior's disappearance sank in.  Starbuck had been like a second
son to Adama, filling the void that Zac had left behind.  But no
matter how much Adama would like to search for his son's best
friend, he knew that the safety of the fleet came first.
     "Shall I form a search patrol?" asked Omega tentatively,
already knowing the answer to his question.
     "No," said Adama firmly.  "Continue on course."
     "Father, we can't just leave him out there!"
     "I'm sorry son, but the safety of the fleet must come first.
If we stay here a centon longer, the Cylons will return in
greater numbers to destroy us.  We must move on."
     Boomer arrived at the bridge at that moment to issue his
report in full.  "Commander, request permission to lead a search
and rescue team for Starbuck."
     "Request denied."
     "But, sir.  We don't know if he is dead yet."
     "Lieutenant, did you or did you not see his Viper before you
lost communication."
     "No, sir.  I heard his voice and then I saw an explosion in
the distance.  But that could have been a Cylon for all we know!"
     "Boomer, if there was even a chance that he was still alive
I wouldn't permit it.  We must protect what is left of our
people.  No man shall ever come before that mission, no matter
how close he is to all of us.  I'm sure Starbuck would not want
us to jeopardize everything we have accomplished."
     "Commander, what if it was just the two of us.  Boomer and I
can go out alone.  If we're spotted, then we'll lead them away
from the fleet," pleaded Apollo desperately.
     "No, Apollo I can't permit that.  You and Boomer are to
valuable.  Besides, what if you were captured?  You could be
forced to divulge our location and Starbuck's sacrifice would be
useless."
     "Father. . . he's done so much for us.  I just can't believe
we're going to abandon him now."
     "I know, Apollo.  Starbuck was like another son to me.  This
is not an easy decision I make but it is for the good of our
people," said Adama as her turned to Omega.  "Bring the fleet up
to maximum speed."
     Apollo turned away in disgust, angry that he was helpless to
do anything for his friend.  He saw Boomer down below looking up
at him, his eyes searching for something but not finding anything
he wanted.  After a long silence, Boomer nodded his head and
departed the bridge.  He was most likely heading for the
Officer's Lounge for a drink and Apollo decided to join him after
his shift.

     Boomer felt like getting drunk at that moment but first he
had a duty to perform.  He walked down the Galactica's corridors
towards the medical wing to be the bearer of bad news.  Entering
the door to the medlab, he spotted the blonde technician he was
looking for and approached her slowly.
     "Cassiopeia," he said mustering his courage.
     "Boomer!  Well this is a pleasant surprise.  What brings you
down here?  You're not injured are you?"
     "No, no I'm fine," said Boomer, glad to get the conversation
going but reminding himself what he came to do.  "I have to talk
to you."
     "About what?" she said, naive to what was coming.
     "It's about Starbuck."
     "Starbuck?  Is he all right?" she said quickly, growing
increasingly concerned from the expression on Boomer's face.
     "There was a battle.  Starbuck's Viper was hit.  His voice
stopped suddenly and we saw an explosion. . ."
     "Starbuck. . ."
     "The fleet is moving forward.  There won't be any rescue
mission."
     "But you think he's. . ."
     "I don't know, Cassiopeia.  That explosion could have been
any number of things.  But we're never going to find out.  I'm
sorry."
     Cassiopeia fought back the tears that were forming, but her
voice broke betraying her feelings.  "I know you tried.  I
suppose it isn't fair to risk everyone's lives for one man."
     "Yes it is fair," said Boomer as he put his hands on her
shoulders.  "He's a good warrior.  I'm sure he'll pull through."
     "I know," she said.  She didn't believe Boomer but he was
doing his best to make her feel better.
     Boomer turned to go but stopped, remembering something else
he was going to tell her.  "Cassiopeia.  The last thing he said
was your name.  I thought you should know."   Boomer turned and
left the way he had come.
     Cassiopeia waited for the door to close and then burst into
tears, letting the sorrow envelope her as she mourned the loss of
the man she loved.

     "Apollo, I heard about Starbuck.  I'm so sorry," said Sheba
as she stared down at him sitting in his booth in the lounge with
his ambrosa.  Without hearing an acknowledgement to her presence,
she slipped down beside him and put her arms around him.
     "He was like a brother to me," muttered Apollo as he stared
at his drink.  "That makes two I've lost."
     "How can you know that?  He may still be alive."
     "Alive?  His best hope is that he crashed on a planet whose
atmosphere won't kill him the moment he opens the hatch.  He'll
be alone, marooned away from his home forever," said Apollo in
disgust.  "You call that a life?"
     Sheba carefully chose her words.  She could see that Apollo
was ready to lash out at anyone and she didn't want to throw away
all that they had worked so hard to achieve.  Since her breakup
with Councillor Gamesh, Apollo and her had steadily grown closer
together, breaking down the barriers that Apollo had put up to
protect himself from hurting.  Now that Starbuck was gone, he was
beginning to withdraw from people again and Sheba did not want to
see that happen.
     "Apollo.  There was nothing you could have done."
     "Wasn't there?  I could have been out there with him,
fighting beside him.  I could have helped him but I didn't.  I
was here, nice and safe aboard the Galactica while my buddy was
out there defending the fleet with his life!"
     "That wasn't your fault.  Commander Adama needs you back
here.  You're a colonel now and you must accept the
responsibilities that go along with that rank.  You're needed
back here as much as you are out in a fighter."
     "No, my father needs me back here!  Not the fleet.  If it
wasn't for him I could be doing my job instead of giving orders
on the bridge.  Well he can do that himself!"
     Apollo ripped his rank insignia off of his collar and left
Sheba behind as he stormed out of the room.  Sheba stared down at
the colonel's star he left sitting on the table.

     Adama stared at the picture he had taken of Apollo and
Starbuck when they had first been assigned as wingmates in Blue
Squadron.  Adama reflected on all the missions that those two had
flown together and all the times they had made it back safely to
the Galactica even under the most insurmountable odds.  He
couldn't believe that Starbuck was gone and a piece of himself
felt as if he had let it happen.  Perhaps if he would not have
promoted Apollo then maybe his son could have prevented the
catastrophe that had befallen his best friend.  Now Adama had
lost yet another son to this seemingly endless war with the
Cylons.  When would it all end?
     The door chimed just then, breaking Adama's mental slide
into sorrow and snapping him back to reality.  He murmured an
invitation to enter and saw his daughter come in and stand before
him at his desk.
     "Father," she began, detecting the intense sorrow in his
eyes.  It wasn't fair that Adama took on so much pain from his
command decisions, she thought.  He tortured himself enough as it
was without having to worry about each pilot he sent out into
battle.
     "I'm fine, Athena," said Adama as he rubbed the moisture
from his eyes.  "I was just thinking of how many times I've sent
Apollo and Starbuck out on missions and how they always came
back."
     "Except this time," said Athena quietly.
     "Yes, I suppose there must always be a time for the
unspeakable to occur."
     "There wasn't anything you could have done.  If anyone
should bear any responsibility it's me."  Athena struggled to
find the words to fit her tortured thoughts.  "I was the one he
was trying to save when he was hit by that Cylon.  I went out
there full of pride, anxious to come to the rescue of a warrior
like Starbuck.  I wanted to impress him and show him how good I
was but all I ended up showing him was my inexperience," said
Athena, the shame she felt coming out in her next words.  "And it
cost him his life."
     "No, Athena.  You're not to blame.  Even the best pilots
find themselves in tough situations in the heat of battle.
Starbuck had encountered that scenario often enough.  You all
hear about how many times Starbuck has come to someone's rescue
but what you don't know is how many times someone else has saved
him.  Starbuck was a Colonial warrior.  He knew his duty and the
risks that one faces in combat.  He laid his life out for you
knowing that you or anyone else would do the same for him."
     "I can't believe he's gone."
     "We don't know that," said Adama with a flicker of hope.
"All you saw was an explosion in the distance.  He could still be
alive.  Starbuck was always one to beat the odds and I wouldn't
doubt it if he was residing right now at this very moment on some
beautiful paradise that we would all be envious to see.  Only his
tangible image is removed from us.  His spirit still dwells in
all our hearts."

     Boomer piloted the shuttle away from the Galactica and back
towards the rest of the fleet.  Jolly, sitting in the copilot's
seat, was running a routine maintenance check of the instruments
while they were on to their destination.
     "You know, Boomer," said Jolly.  "You really don't have to
do this."
     "Are you kidding, Jolly.  I wouldn't miss a chance to
socialize with the people of the fleet for all the mushies in the
universe."
     "I wouldn't exactly call it socializing.  Commander Adama
wants us to talk to them and give them some kind of encouragement
about the hardships they have to suffer.  What will really happen
is that we'll get into a shouting match and Council Security will
have to drag us out before we get lynched."
     "I wouldn't let Council Security chaperone a group of school
children on a field trip.  Besides, why do they have to be
there."
     "Council's orders.  'To make sure that we don't antagonize
the populace'," quoted Jolly.
     "Yes, Jolly.  I'm looking forward to this assignment,"
commented Boomer to himself, realizing that in all likelihood
Council Security would antagonize the populace and he and Jolly
would have to bail them out.  Of course, that was mostly the
reason he had come besides taking an opportunity to get off the
Galactica for awhile.  He was dying to get into a fight with
those warrior rejects.

     The shuttle landed in the bay of one of the endless number
of barges that had been used to accommodate human habitation.
Too many people cramped in cubicles not fit for a daggit's house
and all in need of even the most basic necessities of life.
Boomer and Jolly exited their craft and were met by four
individuals dressed in blue, the uniform of the security force
created by the Council of the Twelve.
     The group walked down a corridor towards the living quarters
without saying a word to each other.  Colonial warriors had run
into problems in the past with this security force and the men in
blue were well aware that they were all failed warriors.  Their
rivalry was an extension of that between Commander Adama and the
Council and the first signs of a political struggle could always
be detected in the number of fights that broke out between these
two outfits.
     The two men in front came to a doorway and opened it up as
the serenity of the corridor was invaded by the screams and
shouts of the occupants inside.  A fight had broken out and
people were lining up along the sides cheering the combatants on.
Three men had surrounded a smaller sandy haired man and were
shoving him around as he charged each individual, trying to break
free.
     "Give us our money," one of them said as he blocked his
prisoner's latest attempt to escape.
     "I won that fairly.  Don't welch out on me, Brackus."
     "You cheated you little boray and if you don't turn over
what's ours I'm going to take it out of you."
     He reached forward to grab his captive when the young man
swung his leg around and caught Brackus in the midsection,
bringing the larger man down to his knees.  He then tried to make
a run for it but Brackus's two friends stopped him and held him
firm with each grabbing one arm.  Brackus slowly stood up,
recovering from the blow he received and stared at the young man
with fire in his eyes.   "You're gonna pay for that.  You will
suffer like you've never suffered before."
     Boomer stared long and hard at the man in question.
Something about him seemed vaguely familiar and he wanted a
chance to talk to him before Brackus could kill him first.  He
drew out his firearm, realizing that none of the security
personnel had even lifted a finger to this point.  He set it on
minimum power and fired it at a support column directly behind
Brackus' head.  The sound of the weapon discharging caused
everyone to stop what they were doing and give their undivided
attention to the source of the noise.
     "All right, break it up.  You two," he said pointing at the
two men helping Brackus.  "Let him go and back off."
     "That's right," jumped in the lead security guard, realizing
that this was his job.  "You're all under arrest."
     The other three security men followed their leader's example
and marched down to apprehend the four men.  Boomer raced down to
the scene, wanting to talk to the perplexing youth before the
security men detained him.
     "Are you all right?" he asked when he finally reached him
through the mob of people.
     "Yeah, I'm fine."
     "What happened back there?"
     "Old Brackus was going to welch on a bet.  I beat him at a
very lucrative hand of pyramid and he didn't feel like paying
up," said the young man as he tossed the black purse containing
his winnings in his hand.
     "You," pointed a security man.  "Come with me."
     "That's okay, I'll handle this one."
     "Nice try, Lieutenant.  But this is our jurisdiction.  Step
aside."
     The security man approached them when Boomer grabbed the
purse of winnings and through it up in the air.  The purse came
down and spilled its contents in midair.  Cubits were scattered
all over the place as people began snatching money.  The three
gamblers saw their money being divided up and promptly broke free
to cover their losses, contributing to the chaos that erupted.
Boomer snuck out with his young charge as the mob swarmed over
the hapless security men.  He met up with Jolly in the corridor
and the three of them raced back to their shuttle.
     "Come on, Jolly.  Let's get out of here!"
     "Right behind you," replied the pudgy pilot as he struggled
to keep up.  Centons later the shuttle launched out of the
landing bay and streaked into space on its way back to the
Galactica.
     "I don't think I caught your name," said Boomer to his
passenger who was standing between the two pilots behind their
seats.
     "Pollux, and yours."
     "I'm Lieutenant Boomer and this is Flight Sergeant Jolly."
     "Pleased to meet you," said Pollux as he nodded in Jolly's
direction.
     "Thanks for getting me out of that mess back there," said
Pollux as he began to relax in the company of his two new
friends.  "Even though it was pretty expensive."
     "Who said anything about you getting out of trouble,"
returned Boomer.
     Pollux's jaw dropped as he realized that he hadn't made a
clean getaway.
     "Don't worry.  I'm not going to turn you over to Council
Security.  That is if you accept my proposal."
     "And that is," said Pollux not liking this arrangement more
and more.
     "That you enlist to become a Colonial warrior."
     "A warrior!  Are you kidding?  You mean go out there in a
Viper and get shot at?  I'm sorry, that's not for me.  I don't
like bringing an element of risk to my life expectancy."
     "You could have fooled me judging by the size of your friend
back there and the way he was about to make you target practice."
     "That wasn't my fault.  I'm totally innocent."
     "I'm sure.  So how much did you lose to Brackus before you
suckered him in to doubling the stakes."
     Pollux's jaw dropped again as Boomer revealed his knowledge
of the scam he was using.
     "How did you know that?"
     "Let's just say I've seen it been done a few times by a
friend of mine."
     "I'd like to meet this friend of yours.  He sounds like a
worthy gambler."
     "So would I," muttered Boomer to himself, remembering the
last moments when he heard Starbuck's voice for the final time.
     "How much does this warrior position pay?" asked Pollux,
breaking the silence.
     "I would think that a man of your talents wouldn't be
interested in that question but would want to know how much he
could make on the side."
     "That was my next question," confessed Pollux.
     "Pollux, you won't find a better pyramid game in the fleet.
Everyone knows that when it comes to gambling, the Galactica has
the highest stakes around."
     "Really?  How much time did you say I would spend in
detention?"
     "Probably a few sectons.  Council Security has been getting
bored lately."
     "Well, I suppose I could give the military a try.  It might
even help me on my way to fame and fortune.  I was a fairly good
pilot back on Caprica.  I used to compete in the star races on
Aries you know."
     "Then I think you'll fit right in," said Boomer.
     Jolly looked over at Boomer with a questioning expression.
He couldn't figure out where Boomer was going with this offer or
why he made it in the first place.  Pollux was in his late
twenties (late teens in years), barely over the age limit to
enter the service.
     Boomer gave his friend a thumbs up sign to inform him that
everything was under control.  He looked back to see Pollux
handling a laser pistol that he had 'borrowed' from Boomer.
Boomer's confidence took a dive and he prayed to the Lord that he
hoped he knew what he was doing.

     Apollo entered the bunk room solemnly.  He now faced a duty
that he did not want to perform.  Slowly, he walked over to
Starbuck's locker and entered his override code to release the
lock.  Apollo opened the locker and looked at the contents
inside.  A flood of memories came back to him as he gazed on his
friend's only possessions.
     He took out his uniforms and laid them on the bunk near him.
First, his spare beige combat clothing.  Next, he reached in and
removed his dress blues.  Finally, he removed his buddy's brown
flight jacket and rested it down beside him.
     Apollo then reached in and withdrew a shiny silver box.
Opening it up, he looked at Starbuck's medals that he had earned
in his brief but illustrious career.  His gold star cluster that
he had received for clearing the mines in the Nova of Madagon.
His second gold star cluster he earned when he and Apollo had
disabled a Cylon basestar by themselves.  A silver star cluster
that Starbuck had gotten along with Apollo and Boomer for taking
out the pulsar gun on the ice planet Arcta.  Several other awards
were scattered about ranging from distinguished service
medallions for achieving high numbers of kills in combat to the
Colonial Medal of Honor that he had received on a mission that
had saved the lives of countless civilians from a Cylon sneak
attack.
     Apollo closed the lid, unable to stand the memories that
rushed back at him at light speed.  Starbuck had been his friend
longer than anyone he had ever known.  He didn't know how he
would get along without him.  First his wife and now his best
friend.  Apollo wondered if he was damned.  Doomed to lose those
people that he was most close to.  He didn't know if he wanted to
be close to anyone again.

     Boomer and Cassiopeia stayed in the control room while she
awaited the results of the latest test she was performing on
Pollux.  Boomer had managed to bring the squirmish young man to
the medical center by stating that this was part of the standard
procedure to determine his eligibility as a Colonial warrior.  He
wasn't quite confident that Pollux was cut out to be a warrior
but he had to think of some excuse to get him on the Galactica.
     He wasn't sure, but Pollux was vaguely familiar to him.
Whenever he looked at the young man, he saw Starbuck's mannerisms
present.  The way he walked, shuffled a pack of pyramid cards and
even his cocky offhand remarks were all similar to his lost
friend.  Even his sandy colored hair was only a few shades
lighter than his buddy's and the facial resemblance was present
as well.  For the umpteenth time he wondered if he was seeing
what he wanted to in this young man.  Starbuck had only been gone
for two sectarie and the pain of losing his best friend had not
yet subsided.  But still there was his familiarity on a
subconscious level that kept Boomer after the truth, no matter
what that might be.
     "Cassiopeia, I really appreciate you doing this.  I know how
hard this must be for you."
     "Boomer, do you really think he could be related to
Starbuck?"
     "I don't know," said Boomer in exasperation.  "I only know
that he feels familiar to me.  Don't you see any resemblance?"
     "The only resemblance I see is on the outside and that could
be just a matter of chance."
     "It's not just that, it's his mannerisms.  The way he walks,
the expressions on his face, all of them are similar to
Starbuck's."
     "What do you want me to do then?  We can't keep him here
forever."
     "Hey, how long is this going to take," said Pollux from the
other room, obviously uncomfortable in his surroundings and
letting them know it by the way he was fidgeting in his
diagnostic chair.
     "I said hold still," said Cassiopeia firmly.  "This will
just take a few more centons."
     "That's what you said ten centons ago," replied Pollux in
defeat.
     "You see," said Boomer, thinking that Pollux's last remarks
had justified his entire case.
     "No, but I'll go along with you for now."
     "Fine.  Now I want you to take the gene sample you extracted
and compare it to Starbuck's.  You should have one when he and
Chameleon performed these same tests."
     "Okay.  Let me bring that information up to compare."
Cassiopeia went to work on her monitors and called up the files
she needed to perform her study.  She had come along way from her
days as a socialator back in the Colonies.  She had continued her
work of healing people in pain to the medical aspects, rather
than the emotional ones.  Cassiopeia had worked hard to train for
her position and was now a chief med tech and Dr. Salik's
principal assistant and confidant.
     "Here it comes now," informed Cassiopeia as Boomer walked
over to join her.  He had been watching Pollux shuffle a deck of
pyramid cards just like Starbuck used to.
     "Good, now compare it to Pollux," said Boomer.
     Cassiopeia entered the necessary instructions.  The computer
overlaid the two patterns and revealed the percent compatibility.
"Well, we have a partial match.  That could mean that they are
related through some common ancestor."
     "Is there anyway to nail it down further."
     "Well, I could use Chameleon's gene sample.  He and Starbuck
are related as well.  This might not tell us how much but at
least tell us if Chameleon's lineage is common with Pollux's."
     She went back to work to process this next comparison.  She
had an uneasy feeling after mentioning Chameleon.  She was the
only one who knew that he was Starbuck's real father.  When
Cassiopeia had informed Chameleon of this, he had made her
promise not to tell Starbuck.  He was concerned that Starbuck
would retire from the military in order to catch up on lost time.
Chameleon could not let his son sacrifice his career for him and
had kept their relationship a secret.
     "Got it.  Now let's compare with both Starbuck and Pollux's
gene sequences."  Cassiopeia entered the necessary instructions
and watched as the computer overlaid the gene patterns to
determine their correlation.
     All three patterns formed on top of each other on the
monitor and the same section on each matched perfectly.  Each of
these three men shared part of the same genetic composition.
Cassiopeia gasped with this revelation while Bore of the significance of her
discovery.
     "Well, what does it mean?"
     "This says," began Cassiopeia, recovering from her shock.
"That Chameleon, Starbuck and Pollux share some genetic traits."
     "Then they are related through Chameleon."
     "No, Boomer.  You don't understand."  Cassiopeia fought over
her oath but decided that she had remained silent too long.
"Chameleon is Starbuck's father."
     "But I thought the tests were negative?"
     "No, they were positive.  Chameleon made me promise not to
tell Starbuck.  Starbuck was going to resign his commission if he
would have known the truth."
     "Then Pollux is . . ."
     "Starbuck's brother," finished Cassiopeia.
     The two of them slowly turned their heads toward the window
and looked out at Pollux who was experimenting with the equipment
around him, oblivious to his recently discovered heritage.

     "Omega, what is the status of our patrols," asked Adama as
he walked up to the command balcony.
     "Patrol One is returning to the Galactica and Patrol Two is
just reaching the perimeter of its flight path."
     "Good, let me know as soon as they arrive.  I want to know
if they have made any contact with the Cylons."
     "Yes, sir," replied Omega as he returned his attention to
his monitors.
     "I feel as if we are entering a trap that is enclosing all
around us," muttered Adama to himself.
     "Commander, you wanted to see me," said Apollo as he
approached his father.
     "Yes, Apollo.  I need your recommendation for a leader for
Blue Squadron.  We've delayed this long enough.  Those pilots
need a squadron commander."
     "I agree, unfortunately Lieutenant Starbuck was to be my
choice.  He was the leading candidate and was due for a
promotion.  Now it could be any one of several pilots."
     "I understand but I need your decision soon.  If my guess is
right, we are heading directly into a Cylon trap.  Our last
encounter was just a prelude of what is yet to come."
     Adama walked over to the map located off to one side of the
bridge.  "We have two massive asteroid fields in front of us,
forcing us through this narrow passage between them.  This funnel
that we will be forced to pass through is the perfect place for a
Cylon ambush.  The asteroids will inhibit our scanners and
provide excellent cover for any number of basestars to hide in."
Adama turned away from the map to face his son.  "What we need is
a decoy to lure the Cylons away while we pass through
undetected."
     "A decoy?  But how?"
     "I don't know.  I'd like you to pay a visit to Dr. Wilker
aboard the electronics ship to see what he can come up with."
     Apollo frowned.  If there was anything he hated more in the
universe than Baltar or the Cylons it was that particular
scientist.  Wilker was pompous and arrogant and had an
exaggerated feeling of his own importance on the fleet.
     "Yes, sir," said Apollo as he left to carry out this
unwanted duty.

     "Are you sure this is the place," said Cassie as they
approached a rusty old door on an even rustier ship.
     "This is where I was told I could find him," replied Boomer.
     "Who told you?"
     "Cassiopeia, I wasn't always a Colonial warrior.  I know
where to go when I need information that isn't available in the
Galactica registry."
     Cassiopeia didn't want to know anymore about Boomer's source
and focused her attention ahead.  She discovered that the door
was unlocked and opened it after repeatedly pushing the correct
button.  The door shot open, nearly flying off its track as the
two carefully entered the room.
     It was dark and dusty, filled with old equipment piled all
over the place.  They passed through a makeshift curtain and
entered an even less desirable looking living area.
     "Chameleon," called out Boomer.
     The sleek older man bumped his head on a dangling piece of
equipment as he crept out of a corner.
     "Cassiopeia!" said Chameleon in delight.  "And Lieutenant
Boomer, isn't it?"
     "Yes, sir.  We've been looking all over the fleet for you.
How did you end up here?  Last I heard you were being
rehabilitated by Siress Blassie."
     "Well, err. . . the Siress and I encountered some, uh. . .
irreconcilable differences.  I was forced to seek alternative
living arrangements."
     "Meaning?" prodded Cassiopeia knowing that there was more to
the story than what he was letting on.
     "She didn't favor my excursions to the Rising Star so she
put me on a strict allowance that was not sufficient for my
needs."
     "She cut you off so you wouldn't gamble away her fortune,"
said Boomer in resignation.  This man was definitely Starbuck's
father.  He was surprised he hadn't guessed the truth sooner.
The two were mirror images of each other.
     "So how did you end up here?" asked Cassie.
     "Well, as you know, my savings were quite limited.  I needed
to find a place that was affordable and as far away from the
siress that I could.  She was quite persistent in her attempts to
locate me after my departure."
     "So you picked a junk ship?" said Boomer.
     "Only temporarily until I can raise the funds needed to
return to the Rising Star."
     "You know you never cease to amaze me.  You and Starbuck
both would sacrifice everything for a chance at some easy
cubits."
     "I beg your pardon," returned Chameleon, curious as to
Boomer's allusion to him and Starbuck.
     "Chameleon," said Cassiopeia.  "I told Boomer about who you
really are."
     "Oh," said Chameleon.  The information slowly sank in as a
new question popped into his mind.  "Then I suppose Starbuck
knows as well."
     Cassiopeia and Boomer looked at each other, wondering who
was going to break the news to the old man.  The expression on
Boomer's face revealed that he had volunteered for that mission,
although he would rather take on a Cylon basestar.
     "Sir, Starbuck was lost in battle."
     "I see," said Chameleon as he set down on a makeshift stool
while it sunk into him that his son was dead.
     "Perhaps I should have let him know," he said quietly in
regret.  "Then perhaps he would be alive today."
     "Chameleon, you can't blame yourself," consoled Cassie.
     "No, Cassiopeia.  He had a right to know.  I should have
told him.  I was selfish.  My unwillingness to become a father
again cost him his life."
     "Starbuck died bravely.  He saved many lives in the time he
was a warrior.  If you would have told him the truth then many
men and women would not have returned from battle."
     "Yes, I suppose your right," said Chameleon not to
convincingly.  "I was at the awards ceremony when he received a
medal for disabling that Cylon warship.  I was so proud of him
that I almost told him. . .  But that's in the past.  Thank you
for telling me."
     "There's something else," began Cassiopeia, unsure if now
was the time to talk to him about this.  "We've found someone in
the fleet who has a matching DNA pattern with you."
     "I don't understand."
     "His name is Pollux.  He's your son."
     "My son?  Are you sure?" said Chameleon, not overly
surprised.
     "Yes.  Starbuck's match confirms it.  Did Starbuck know he
had a brother?"
     "No, and for good reason.  He doesn't. . . at least not
directly."  The two waited for Chameleon to continue as he began
to retell his life story knowing they would not stand for
anything less than the truth.
     "After the attack on Umbra I had lost everything.  My wife,
my son, my home.  The worst part about it was I didn't even know
what had happened.  I was in a state of traumatic amnesia for
five yahrens.  I couldn't remember any of the events that had
occurred or anything of my past life.  I wandered around the
Colonies in despair, trying to figure out who I was until I met a
woman named Theleda.  She was a kind and caring person and she
took me into her home.  She had recently lost her husband in the
war and we both comforted each other.  We became intimate and she
was discussing our becoming sealed.  Shortly before our wedding,
I began to have recurring nightmares about the Cylon attack.
Then one day I woke up and remembered everything.  It was too
much for me, suddenly realizing that you had a wife and son and
then recalling their deaths.  I couldn't take it so I left
Theleda without saying goodbye.  It was a mistake.  I always
meant to come back to her but too much time had passed and I was
too ashamed to return."
     "Then Pollux could be Theleda's son," said Boomer.
     "It is very probable," admitted Chameleon.
     "Pollux deserves to know the truth," said Cassiopeia.
     "You tell him.  I'll be here when he comes."
     "Chameleon. . ."
     "Cassiopeia, he doesn't need me to ruin his whole life.  I
would only mess it up."
     "You can't do him any worse," said Boomer.  "He's been
associating with the wrong people and there anxious to get even.
Your son is a small time card player without any future."
     "Chameleon, he's just a boy, not even thirty yahrens old.
He needs you," pleaded Cassie.  "He needs his father."
     Chameleon looked up at the two of them and listened to their
pleas for help.  He had already messed up once, maybe this was
his second chance at fatherhood.

     "Captain Apollo.  What brings you here to the backwater of
the fleet?"
     "Commander Adama sent me to seek out your assistance, Dr.
Wilker," said Apollo, forcing each polite word from his lips.
"And it's colonel now."
     "My apologies, Colonel.  What does the Commander need?"
     "We believe that there is a Cylon ambush waiting for us
ahead.  Commander Adama wants a decoy to lure the Cylons away
while we escape."
     "I see.  So he wants to create the illusion that the
Galactica is in two places at once," said Wilker deep in thought.
     "That's right.  Do you have anything that can help us,"
demanded Apollo.
     "I just might."  Dr. Wilker walked through his lab to a
different work station while he explained what he was doing.
     "Recently we've been working on decoding ultrasecure Cylon
transmissions.  The ones the basestar commanders receive directly
from Cylon and the Imperious Leader.  We started this project
yahrens ago, before the destruction of the Colonies.  We think we
have isolated a handful of the frequencies they use to transmit.
I think I can rig up a device that will send false signals along
these frequencies so that the Cylons will believe that they are
detecting the Galactica on their scanners.  The only way they'll
know the truth is through visual contact.  The problem is the
device can't work via remote from the Galactica.  It has to be
attached to a moving spacecraft for it to create the illusion."
     "Thank you, Doctor.  I think you've got exactly what we're
looking for," said Apollo in delight, momentarily forgetting his
repulsion of the man.
     "And tell Commander Adama that I'm still waiting on my
request to transfer my lab to a ship more adequate for my needs,"
said Wilker to Apollo's back as he left the room.

     A group of Galactican officers sat around a table in the
bunk room engaging in a fierce game of pyramid.  Boomer, Jolly,
Greenbean and Pollux were all staring at each other, attempting
to determine if each possessed the winning hand or not.  Finally,
Pollux broke the stalemate and forced the game to an end.
     "I call.  Lay them on the table gentlemen and let's see who
cashes in."
     The three warriors and one in training laid down their hands
successively.  Jolly saw that his hand had beaten Boomer's and
Greenbean's and looked over to Pollux's end of the table to
confirm his victory when he saw what the young man possessed.
     "A full pyramid.  I can't believe it!  That's the fourth
straight hand he's won!"
     "I don't know how he's doing it, but I'm broke," said
Greenbean as he stood up to leave.  "Thanks Boomer.  Next time,
don't invite your friend."
     Boomer returned Greenbean's order with an innocent look,
throwing both hands up in the air to indicate his naivete
concerning his guest's skill at cards.
     "He's got me stumped.  Not even Starbuck had so much luck in
one game," said Jolly.
     "Starbuck?  I've heard that name mentioned a lot lately.
Who is he and where can I find him.  He seems to be my number one
competition," bragged the cocky youth.
     "Starbuck was a Colonial warrior," said Boomer.
     Pollux caught the verb tense and sank into his chair a bit
from the embarassment he felt.  "I'm sorry, I didn't know.  Were
you close?"
     "He was my best friend."
     "Oh," said Pollux, feeling uncomfortable about bringing up
an obviously sore subject for Boomer.
     Jolly didn't seem to notice and continued on to describe the
person in question.  "He was the finest pilot in the fleet.  I
don't think I've ever seen anybody handle a ship like he did."
     "How did it happen?" asked Pollux.  He was careful to watch
Boomer's expression but his recent, albeit initially forced,
interest in the military made him thirst for knowledge on his
predecessors.
     "He was saving a fellow warrior from certain destruction,"
said Boomer.  "She was being pursued by a Cylon Raider.  Starbuck
destroyed the ship before it could fire but in the process his
ship was damaged by another Raider."
     "He shot down that ship knowing full well that he was going
to be hit?" asked Pollux incredulously, admiring the courage of
such an individual.
     "Most likely.  Starbuck had a keen sense in battle.  I'm
sure he knew what he was doing," said Boomer.
     "That's incredible," said the boy in amazement.
     "Not really, Pollux.  You see that's what being a Colonial
warrior is all about.  We go out in our Vipers every time knowing
that we may not return.  Saving a fellow pilot is a drop in the
hat compared to our normal duty.  We are here to protect the last
remnants of humanity.  Every warrior is expected to sacrifice
their life for the countless civilians of the fleet."
     Pollux listened intently as Boomer began to talk more about
the life and duty of a Colonial warrior.  Pollux sensed that this
man was more aware of his duty than any other individual aboard
the Galactica and believed in it fervently.  His admiration of
the man grew more and more as Boomer expressed his most private
thoughts about the military and its role in the protection of the
civilian population.
     As Boomer explained his views about the warrior class of
society, he began to look at Pollux in a different way.  He saw
this young man not as a con artist struggling to make a life for
himself on the fleet, but as a boy looking for heroes just as he
had done in his youth.  He switched the subject he was talking
about and began to retell the stories of heroes and legends that
had been passed down to him during his time in the service.

     "You know that just might work," said Adama after hearing of
the invention by Doctor Wilker.  "If we could send out a Viper
transmitting an image of the Galactica we might be able to divert
them over a hectare or more.  Of course we would need a volunteer
for a probable one way mission.  The pilot will have to turn back
after he is detected but cannot lead the Cylons back to the
Galactica."
     "Commander, I volunteer for this mission."
     Adama knew that his son would try this and had already run
several scenarios through his mind to counter it.  As of yet he
could not think of one that would work.
     "No, Apollo.  I'm sorry, it's just too risky.  I can't send
my executive officer out on a suicide mission.  You are needed
here."
     "Sir, with all due respect I, like every other man, woman
and child in this fleet, am needed where I can do the most
service to our people.  Pick a better pilot than myself and I'll
let them go out there.  But I will not send anyone out on a
mission of this caliber unless I'm willing to fly it myself!"
     The anger Apollo had felt before returned with a renewed
fury.  He was tired of sending warriors out on dangerous missions
when he was willing to take the risks himself.
     "What about Boomer or Sheba?  They're both good pilots,"
said Adama.
     "Yes, they are but can you honestly say that they are more
capable than I am to fly this mission?  Only Starbuck would have
a better chance of returning.  But his luck gave out one mission
ago."
     That remark stung and Adama stared daggers back at his son.
He didn't need to be reminded of the loss of one of his best
warriors but Apollo had made his point.
     "Father," said Apollo as he made his final argument.  "You
said so yourself.  We are being funneled into this sector and
there's no way out.  If this plan doesn't work, the odds are that
none of us will survive."
     Adama stared thoughtfully out the forward window, pondering
his next decision.  He realized how crucial it was but
desperately searched for the courage within him to put aside his
personal feelings and come to the right decision.
     Apollo saw the wait as an indication he was losing and
pressed his argument again.  "I already abandoned one friend.  I
won't abandon the rest."
     Adama saw that any more discussion was pointless.  His son
was determined to proceed with or without his approval.  The
death of Starbuck was still hanging over him and Apollo would not
risk another friend as long as he was capable of flying the
mission himself.  His son was just beginning to wrestle with the
burden of command that he had carried for so long and now hardly
noticed.  It would be sometime before Apollo matured enough in
his new rank to issue orders without feeling guilty about sending
others to do what he could do himself.
     "Colonel," said Adama reaching a decision.  "Prepare your
ship."
     "Thank you, sir," said Apollo as he turned to leave.
     "And Apollo," called Adama as his son was exiting the
bridge.  Apollo glanced back in the direction he had come from.
"May the blessings of the Lords of Kobol be upon you.  Good luck,
son."
     Apollo nodded his appreciation and left the bridge.  Adama
remained behind to ponder the possible consequences of his
decision.  He had already lost one son and another that he
considered part of his family.  He didn't know if he could bear
to lose another child to this war.

     "Okay, from the top," said Boomer as he prepared the
simulator for another run.  "And this time try not to destroy the
Galactica."
     "All right, I said I was sorry," said Pollux as he prepared
for another practice mission.  "These things are a lot faster
than the crates I'm used to flying."
     "I thought you said you'd flown in the Aerian Star Races?"
     "I did.  In the junior circuit.  Those flyers didn't go very
fast."
     Boomer couldn't believe what he was hearing.  He had been
tricked into letting a con artist train to become a Colonial
warrior.  He didn't know how much longer he could stall until
Pollux washed out and left the Galactica before they had a chance
to tell him about his family.
     Pollux grabbed the control stick and depressed the turbo
button.  His head jerked back as the training module simulated
the pressure he would be feeling if he was actually launching
from the Galactica.  The next thing he knew he was in deep space
with the Galactica fast becoming a distant speck of light behind
him.  He mentally ran through the mission one more time to be
sure he was proceeding correctly.  Confident that he knew what he
was doing, he angled his Viper over twelve degrees to port and
proceeded on his new heading.  Twenty microns later, as he knew
would happen, his scanners registered another craft entering his
range.  He flicked the switch that would activate his combat
computer as his screen relayed the information back to him.  It
was confirmed, a Cylon fighter was approaching him.  Pollux
ignited his turbos once more and set an intercept course.  When
he was in range he lined up the Raider in his sights and fired
his laser button to obliterate the enemy.  But instead he
depressed his braking thrusters and brought his ship to a
complete stop.  The next thing he saw was the Raider filling the
view from his cockpit and blowing him to bits.  The simulation
ended and his cockpit raised up as he looked at the disgusted
expression on Boomer's face.
     "I would have had him if I could have remembered where the
firing button was," said Pollux in self-defense.
     "You're right, but instead you activated your braking
thrusters and he just chalked up another human to oblivion."
Boomer sighed in resignation.  "Pollux, you have natural born
instincts.  You handle a fighter well for anyone who doesn't do
this for a living but I don't think you are cut out for combat."
     Pollux looked down in shame.  At first he had only
considered doing this to get in on the high stakes games Boomer
had promised him were aboard the Galactica.  But now he wanted to
be a part of the team that was sacrificing their lives for the
rest of the fleet.  Before he thought he needed only to be
thankful to be alive and not a slave back on the Colonies.  Now
he realized he had to appreciate the hard work these warriors did
in keeping him and everyone else in the fleet safe.
     "Boomer, I know I can do it.  With a little practice I can
be as good as the rest of them."
     "Pollux, some people are just not cut out to be warriors.
It's nothing to be ashamed of.  Your services are needed in other
areas of the fleet.  Everyone helps out and no job is
unimportant."  Even as he said the words they sounded empty to
him as he looked at the distraught youth plead his case.  He had
grown very close to Pollux in the short time he had been aboard
the Galactica.  He wasn't sure if he was willing to place this
young man in a position that could threaten his life.  Boomer
began to wonder whether he was dismissing the boy too quickly so
that he would not have to lose Pollux just like he lost his
brother.
     Chameleon walked into the room at that time, unnoticed to
the two men.  He stopped before he could be seen, wanting to
listen in on the conversation before he intruded.
     "Boomer, when we were down in the officer's lounge talking
to the other warriors I heard about your friend, Starbuck.  I
understand that he was a lot like me and that he sacrificed
himself to save a fellow warrior.  I know now that I want to do
this.  I want to help protect the fleet and maybe touch enough
people so that I can have the same effect Starbuck had on
everyone's lives.  I never had anyone before in my life," Pollux
confessed.  "I was always alone.  I thought I liked it that way
until I came here, until you brought me here.  I don't know if
you brought me here because I resembled your friend but I do know
that for the first time in my life I have a friend."
     Boomer was shocked by the speech given by Pollux.  He hadn't
realized that he had become so dependent on the young man until
now.  He was about to word some reply to Pollux's tribute when
Chameleon cleared his throat, announcing his presence.
     "Uh, Boomer.  May I have a word with the young man?"
     "Sure," said Boomer and left the two of them together in the
simulation room.
     Chameleon looked down at the boy still seated in the
cockpit.  His eyes were so much like Theleda's, he thought.  And
he possessed the same sandy blonde hair that characterized his
side of the family.  Right then and there he knew that this was
his son.  There was only one thing left to do.  Chameleon decided
to take the direct approach in breaking the news.
     "Pollux, I am the reason Boomer brought you here."
     "You?  Why?"
     "Because," began Chameleon, mustering his strength to force
out the next few words.  "I am your father."
     Shocked filled his mind after hearing those words.  Pollux
wasn't sure if he believed him or even wanted to.  He didn't want
to be disappointed by this sudden revelation if it be proven
false.
     "My mother told me that my father died in the war," said
Pollux, clinging to his crumbling view of the world.
     "That was her husband.  I met your mother shortly after his
death and the two of us became very close."
     "Why are you telling me this now?"
     "You see I too had lost a family because of the war.  I
later discovered that my son was still alive and aboard this
fleet.  But he is gone and I never had the courage to tell him
who I was."
     "You think you can walk back into my life and make amends?"
said Pollux in disbelief.
     "Pollux. . ."
     "Where were you all those yahrens!" accused Pollux, rage
over lost time overcoming the joy of discovering the father he
never knew.  "Why did you leave us?
     "Pollux, I didn't know you existed until Cassiopeia told
me."
     "Cassiopeia knew!  I suppose Boomer did as well," cried out
Pollux as he suddenly felt betrayed and deceived at the same
time.
     "They were only trying to help.  Son. . ."
     "Don't call me that!  How could you leave her like that when
she needed you!  You didn't see her after you left but I did.
She gave up hope and just slowly let herself die.  Her body
didn't die until I was older but I never knew my mother being
alive all my life!"  Pollux ran out of the simulator room as fast
as he could,  trying to get away from all the memories of his
childhood that Chameleon had brought up in the wink of an eye.

     Apollo was in the bunk room getting his equipment together
for his mission.  He grabbed his helmet out of his locker and put
his pistol in his holster when Sheba entered the room.  The
moment he had been avoiding finally came and there was no escape.
He knew what she was going to say and admitted that she had a
right to be angry and concerned.  But there were some things that
she didn't know and he needed to tell her.
     "Apollo, I heard from Commander Adama that you volunteered
for a mission.  One that you probably won't be coming back from."
     "He may have exaggerated a little.  It's just another
mission."
     "No it's not!" screamed Sheba.  "You're doing it again!
Every time we get close enough to talk to each other you go out
on some suicide run anxious to get yourself killed!"
     Sheba was furious yet Apollo kept his calm and did nothing
to antagonize her.  "I thought you had gotten over Serina.  I
thought you had decided to live again, to give us a chance.  But
I see that you're still trying to die for the fleet."
     "That's not true.  I'm no longer haunted by ghosts from the
past," said Apollo calmly.
     "Then why are you doing this?"
     "Because someone has to.  If I don't succeed then we'll lose
a lot of ships in the battle that will come.  Isn't one man worth
thousands of lives?"
     "But why does it always have to be you?"
     "Because I'm their best chance."  Apollo shook his head as
he tried to explain the myriad of thoughts that were swarming
through his mind.  "Sheba, I can't order someone else to do this.
I have to do it myself.  I don't expect you to understand but
please don't hate me for it."
     "I just don't want to lose you," said Sheba with tears
streaming down her cheeks as she reluctantly accepted what was to
come.  Apollo placed his arms on her shoulders as he gazed into
her eyes.
     "Sheba, I'm not trying to die anymore.  I have a lot of
people to live for."  Apollo paused for a moment as he brought
her hands into his own.  "And a special few to come back to."  He
gently brushed his lips against hers and swiftly departed towards
the launch tube.

     "Transferring launch control to Viper pilot.  Launch when
ready," came Rigel's voice over Apollo's comlink.
     Apollo activated his engines and depressed the button that
would begin his mission.  He was thrown back in his seat as his
Viper hurtled down the launch tube and out into space as he began
his perilous journey.

     Sheba sat in the launch bay staring out the launch tube that
Apollo's Viper had departed through an unknown number of centons
ago.  But to Sheba, whatever time had passed seemed infinite.
She heard the lift coming to a stop at this level and didn't
bother to look up at who came down to sit beside her.
     "Care if I sit down?" asked Cassiopeia as she knelt down
beside her friend.
     "I can't believe he left," said Sheba.
     "I know.  It must be hard for you, especially after he has
come so far to bridge the gap between the two of you."
     "You should know," said Sheba barely containing her sobs.
"Starbuck is gone too."
     "But at least Apollo has a chance to return.  You have to
keep hope in that."  Cassiopeia stung on the inside from being
reminded of Starbuck but she put her own pain aside in order to
help a friend who was suffering more at that moment.
     "Just like him to pull this kind of stunt on me," said Sheba
in anger.  "Every time we are on the verge of becoming close he
has to go off on some suicide mission while I wait here and hope
he comes back."
     "I don't know why he does it," answered Cassie.  "Why the
both of them do what they do.  They seem to have this feeling
that they are the only ones who can save the fleet whenever a
dangerous mission comes up and it is up to them to risk their
lives for all of us.  That's what Starbuck was doing when he was
lost.  Once more sacrificing himself to save another."
     Cassiopeia stopped her reflective thoughts and focused on
the matter at hand.  "But I do know that Apollo cares for you
very much.  He would never jeopardize that or accept a mission he
doesn't think he can return from with you and Boxey waiting for
him."
     "I suppose you're right.  I just don't think I can lose him.
I've lost so much already."  Sheba turned towards Cassiopeia,
suddenly realizing that the two women, one time at odds with each
other for so many yahrens, now shared something very intimately
in common.  Both had lost someone they loved and both now faced
losing someone else close to them.  Starbuck probably lost
forever.
     "Do you miss him?" began Sheba.  Attempting to bring up a
subject that had been a source of conflict for them in the past.
"My father?"
     "Very much, Sheba.  He was an extraordinary man."
     "Do you think we'll ever see him again?"
     "That old juggernaut," said Cassiopeia as the two women
laughed over the nickname he had obtained.  "I'm sure of it.
Cain always had a way of turning up when you least expect it.
And I think it will take more than three Cylon baseships to
outwit him."
     "I think you are right.  Count Iblis told me that I would
see him again.  For some reason, I still believe he was telling
the truth about that."  Sheba gazed down at the floor as she
thought about all her experiences with her father.  "I wish he
was here now."
     "So do I, Sheba.  So do I," admitted Cassiopeia as a tear
streamed down her cheek for the two men she had loved and lost to
the emptiness of space.

     "Pollux?" said Chameleon as he found his forgotten son in
the bunkroom of the Galactica.  Not hearing a reply, he slowly
approached him like a predator trying to sneak up on its prey so
as not to frighten it away.
     "Pollux, I just wanted a chance to explain everything and
apologize before I leave," he said as he sat down.
     "Leave?" asked Pollux.  "Where are you going?"
     "Away from here.  It was wrong of me to intrude on your
life.  I just wanted a chance to make up for what I failed with
Starbuck."
     "Starbuck?"
     "Yes, he was your half-brother.  A son of mine back when I
lived near the Caprican thorn forests in an agro community called
Umbra."
     "The legendary fighter pilot of the Galactica was my
brother?" asked Pollux in doubt as he was awed by his
relationship to this man whose name was a hallowed word in the
ships of the fleet.  His heroic exploits had spread across the
fleet at a time when the human race needed heroes more than ever.
     "Pollux, I don't expect you to forgive me.  What I did to
your mother was wrong.  But I wanted you to know that for the
short time we were together we were very happy.  I thought you
should know that your mother was full of life at one time."
     "Thank you for telling me that," said Pollux, thankful to
know that his mother had been a much happier woman before he knew
her.
g referred to as father.
     "Maybe it's not too late to make up for lost time."
     Chameleon slowly rose to face his son.  After an
immeasurable period of time the two of them came together and
clasped arms.  This quickly lead into an embrace as the two men
accepted the new roles of father and son.  A relationship that
they had been denied of for so long.

     Colonel Apollo piloted his fighter on a heading that took
him perpendicular to the fleet's course.  This way he hoped to
lure the Cylon forces as far away as possible without them
picking up the real Galactica on their scanners.  As soon as he
had reached a safe distance from the fleet he activated the
device Dr. Wilker had installed that would create a false image
of the Galactica on the Cylons' scanners.
     "Let's hope this piece of junk works," murmured Apollo as he
activated his long range scanners to detect any sign of motion in
the asteroid debris.

     "Are there any objects emerging from the asteroid field?"
     "Not yet, Commander," replied Omega.
     "Continue scanning," ordered Adama.  "I know they're out
there."  He knew his crew would report anything to him
immediately but Adama was growing impatient.  This plan had to
work or else the fleet would be a sitting target.  The Galactica
would probably escape but the rest of the fleet would suffer
heavy damage from the Cylons and the resulting collisions with
asteroids from their evasive maneuvers.
     He hoped that he was wrong about the Cylon trap he suspected
but every fiber in his being told him that he was right.  Ever
since the destruction at the peace conference he had promised
himself to always pay heed to his intuition.  He had been right
back then but had not acted strongly enough to avoid the
catastrophe that had followed.  He would never make the same
mistake again.

     "Commander," spoke a centurion from his position in the
control chamber of the Cylon basestar.
     "Report," ordered the gold plated centurion from his command
chair in the control room.
     "We have detected the Galactica on our scanners."
     "What is its position," asked Reptilion, commander of the
baseship.
     "It is on a heading taking it away from the asteroid field."
     "We have been detected," deduced Reptilion.  "Notify the
other baseship commanders and depart the asteroid field to pursue
the Galactica."
     "By your command."

     For a long silence, nothing happened and Apollo began to
wonder if Dr. Wilker's device was working.  When he was ready to
turn back, a faint blip caught the corner of his eye.  In the
hazy resolution of his deep space scanners he saw an object
emerge from the asteroid field.  After waiting several more
microns he detected a second large object coming out of the far
side of the asteroids.  From those positions, the Cylons would
have been able to launch a devastating surprise attack on the
Galactica and its fleet.  Apollo ignited his turbos to increase
his speed.  He had to stay ahead of the basestars so that he
could divert their attention long enough for the fleet to make it
through the asteroids.

     "Sir, we're picking up two Cylon basestars on our long range
scanners."
     "Location," ordered Adama.
     "Commander, their moving out from the asteroid field in the
direction of Colonel Apollo's craft."
     "He did it!" exclaimed Adama in joy, then calming down as he
realized that his son was in danger as long as the fleet stayed
in their present position.  "Bring the fleet to maximum speed and
take us through the asteroids."  The Galactica and its ragtag
fleet surged ahead towards the safe passage between the asteroid
fields.

     "The Galactica continues to evade our pursuit," reported a
centurion.
     "Go to lightspeed.  Prepare all fighters for attack."
     The klaxon rang throughout the baseship as hundreds of
centurions marched through the corridors of the ship to the
launch bay and into their fighters.

     "I'm not going to be able to outrun them forever," said
Apollo as he looked down at his fuel gauge.  "And I'm going to
run out of fuel if I don't turn back soon."
     Changing his focus to his scanners, he saw several smaller
objects appear on his scanners.  Cylon Raiders being launched to
attack him, or what they thought he represented.
     "And now you've committed yourself," said Apollo.  The
baseships could not turn back and attack the fleet without
waiting for their smaller attack craft to land.  With a full
scale launch being mounted, it would take several centons for
that to be finished, with the Galactica safely away by then.
Besides, it would only take one ship to uncover his deception.
Apollo waited until the Raiders were almost on top of him and hit
his braking thrusters.  At the same time he rolled to his right
and reignited his turbos to escape the deadly snare.

     "That is not the Galactica," remarked one centurion.
     "It is a deception," concluded the lead centurion seated
behind the two pilots.  "Inform Reptilion.  Regroup and attack
the Colonial warrior.
     The Cylon Raiders in the attack group split off from the
main armada and reformed to pursue a lone Viper.

     Apollo glanced down at his scanners and saw that he had not
eluded the Cylons permanently.  Knowing that he couldn't lead
them back to the Galactica, Apollo piloted his Viper towards the
asteroid field in an attempt to lose his pursuers.  Laserfire
exploded all around him as the Cylon armada closed in for the
kill on the lone Colonial warrior.  Apollo willed more speed out
of his fighter as he entered the asteroid field.
     Gigantic chunks of interstellar rock flew by him as he
continued through at full thrusters in an attempt to evade the
relentless machine pilots.  The first Cylon Raiders entered the
field after their prey and were promptly destroyed by an asteroid
that hurtled into their flight path.  More Cylon Raiders followed
and made it in further but were eventually destroyed in
collisions.  One Raider avoided an obstacle but crashed into a
fellow ship in its evasion.  The Cylons could not adjust fast
enough to the constantly changing region around them.  But Apollo
trusted his instincts and managed to navigate safely through the
interstellar obstacle course.

     "We are losing too many fighters," said the centurion from
the center seat of his Raider.
     "The asteroids are interfering with our instruments.  We no
longer detect the Colonial Viper on our scanners," said a second
centurion.
     "Return to basestar," droned the lead centurion as his two
pilots guided the craft back towards their baseship.  The Cylon
armada flew back out the way they came but several Raiders were
destroyed by the asteroids before they could clear the field.

     Apollo's Viper broke through the dangerous sea of rock and
into clear space as he sighed in relief.  After checking to make
sure he wasn't being followed, he plotted an intercept course for
the Galactica and headed home.

     "So you're telling me that you flew into an asteroid field
at full turbos and made it through in one piece?" asked Boomer to
Apollo as the warriors of the Galactica assembled for a victory
celebration in the officer's lounge.
     "It wasn't easy, Boomer.  I'm still amazed I pulled that
kind of stunt.  There must be a part of Starbuck in all of us,"
commented Apollo.
     "If that's the case then I'm going to head over to the
Rising Star and see if my luck has changed."
     "Is that the only trait of Starbuck's that you care for?"
asked Sheba.
     "No, I wouldn't mind having better luck in some other
departments either," said Boomer as he looked at a gorgeous
technician walk by his table.
     "You men are all alike," said Sheba in disgust, then turning
to Apollo with a very thoughtful look.  "But I wouldn't mind some
company tonight."
     "Can we join the party," said Pollux with Cassiopeia and
Chameleon in tow.
     "Please," said Apollo a bit too loudly, eager to change the
subject.
     "So what are your plans now, Pollux.  Are you still
interested in becoming a Colonial warrior?" asked Apollo, after
being informed of recent events by Boomer.
     "Yes, but not right now.  My father and I have a lifetime to
make up for," said Pollux as he looked at the older man beside
him.  Chameleon's head lowered in embarrassment, unaccustomed to
the affections that were being lavished on him.
     "Besides, I've been working on this system but there are a
few flaws in it that I can't seem to fix.  So I was thinking that
you and I could take a little trip to the Rising Star," said
Pollux to Chameleon as the older man listened intently.  "Oh,
Boomer.  Do you think it's possible that I could get a few
sectons pay in advance?  When I do become a Colonial warrior that
is."
     Boomer shook his head in disbelief.  Things were getting
back to normal aboard the Galactica.  "So you're serious about
the military."
     "Don't worry.  You can't get rid of me that easy."
     "I wouldn't think of it," said Boomer to his new young
friend.
     "Well we'll be glad to have you," said Apollo in
appreciation.  "If you're half as talented as Boomer says you are
then you'll make an outstanding Viper pilot."  Pollux blushed at
the praise he was receiving from a warrior of Apollo's stature.
     "In fact," said Apollo slyly as he stood up for all to hear.
"We might have a position for you in Blue Squadron.  That is if
Boomer will accept you on his team."
     "I don't understand," said Boomer.
     "Lieutenant Boomer, by my orders and Commander Adama's
approval, you are hereby promoted to squadron commander.
Congratulations, Captain."  The officers around the lounge
cheered on the new flight leader as he took his new rank pin from
Apollo after shaking his hand.
     "I don't know what to say," said Boomer as he began to
recover from the shock.
     "Don't say anything.  You've earned this.  I wouldn't trust
anyone else to lead my father's strike wing."
     "Thank you, sir."  The applause died down and the
celebration resumed with a renewed fervor from the recent
ceremony.
     "I'd like to thank you all for your support," said Boomer.
"But I think we should pay tribute to the warrior who deserved
this promotion more than myself.  To Starbuck."
     "To Starbuck," said the rest as they raised their mugs in
honor of their fallen friend.



Fleeing from the Cylon tyranny, the last battlestar, Galactica,
leads a ragtag fugitive fleet on a lonely quest.  A shining
planet known as Earth.
