Copyright 1994, 1995 by Adam C. Stacey
This story is written for pure pleasure and is not intended to
infringe on any preexisting copyrights that may be violated.
Respect the author's work and do not use this to seek profit.
This message must be accompanied with all redistributions.
The author can be reached at Michigan State University (92-96)
Email ID: stacey@student.msu.edu
______________________________________________________________

There are those who believe that life here began out there, far
across the universe, with tribes of humans who may have been the
forefathers of the Egyptians, or the Toltecs, or the Mayans.
That they may have been the architects of the great pyramids, or
the lost civilizations of Lemuria or Atlantis.

Some believe that there may yet be brothers or man who even now
fight to survive, somewhere beyond the heavens. . .



                      BATTLESTAR GALACTICA

                            starring

                          Richard Hatch
                          Dirk Benedict
                               and
                      Lorne Greene as Adama

                         BALTAR RETURNS

                          also starring
                       Herb Jefferson, Jr.
                          Maren Jensen
                          John Colicos
                          Noah Hathaway
                         Laurette Spang
                           Tony Swartz
                          Anne Lockhart


                           Written by

                         Adam C. Stacey


                  Based on Battlestar Galactica

                           Created by

                         Glen A. Larson



     The wind blew harsh on this world.  An obscure planet in the
Quilix system that was not important enough to have a name.  Its
only significance was the fact that it was the home of the worst
criminal in the entire history of the human race.  A man who had
sold out his own people for the promise of power and glory that
was not to come.  A name whose utterance is a curse among those
who travel in 220 assorted vessels in a ragtag fleet that is
moving without end towards a destination that might not exist.
One time leader of his people and a commander in their most hated
enemy's forces.  Baltar!
     The most hated man in the universe paced the grounds of his
new domain.  A domain he feared would be his for the remainder of
his lifetime, how ever long that might be.  He was an endangered
species on this world.  His meager rations exhausted sectons ago,
Baltar now foraged what he could out of the unplentiful fruits of
his prison.  Adama had said this was a habitable world.  He would
have liked to find the man who classified this barren rock as
habitable and squeeze the life out of him with his bare hands.
For hundreds of metrons around, all Baltar could see was an
inhospitable landscape devoid of all life but his own.
     The man who sought to be king of his own tribe was now
diminished to a kingdom of rock.  He could just imagine what
Lucifer would say about his predicament in that sarcastic tone of
voice that he adored.  Lucifer was like a jewel to Baltar.  He
was a reminder that their was hope that humanity would live on.
The machine beings who claimed to be the antithesis of his own
race were steadily becoming more like their enemy than they could
believe.  Yes, he had chosen the right side in this war, for all
the good it did him.
     He was still a prisoner, serving out his sentence for the
most horrible crime anyone could imagine: selling out his own
people to their archenemy.  How many billions had perished by his
actions?  He could not fathom the number, but that did not
matter.  The human race was doomed and Baltar had seen it.  That
was why he had formed an alliance with the Cylon Empire.  It was
only a matter of time before the humans would fall to the
relentless machine race.  Strange, how after all his time with
these creatures he no longer thought of himself as human.  Maybe
that was what had compelled him to take matters into his own
hand.  If the human race was going to fall, Baltar didn't want to
go down with it.  He thought that if he could offer the Imperious
Leader eleven of the twelve colonies, the Cylon commander might
spare his own and place his tribe under his leadership as a
protectorate of the Cylon Empire.  But he had been betrayed.  A
traitor betrayed, how ironic.  The Leader had not been satisfied
with this arrangement and had altered the deal to make all twelve
colonies of man his own.  When Baltar had learned of this
treachery, it was too late and he had been ordered to be executed
after he had been put on public display in the Cylon capital.
     In his absence, the surviving humans had rallied together
under the leadership of Commander Adama and had fled their plight
to the distant world of Carillon.  A Cylon trap awaited them, but
Adama had managed to avoid the snare and achieve a devastating
victory that had claimed the life of the Imperious Leader
himself.  The Cylon capital had been in a state of chaos.  It had
been aeons since an Imperious Leader had been destroyed in
battle.  The idea of the perfect machine being defeated by a band
of emotional, illogical organic creatures was unthinkable.  The
very core of the Cylon culture was placed in jeopardy.  Out of
the chaos that followed, a new Imperious Leader arose who faced a
most difficult task.  He had to restore order to the Alliance
before other slaves of the state could detect a weakness in their
masters and revolt against the natural order of the universe.
Baltar watched all this with great detail and interest.  At the
time he was bound on all four limbs and hung vertically over the
main plaza of the Cylon capital.  When he was summoned before the
Imperious Leader and learned that this was a new machine, all the
pieces fell into place.  Baltar now knew what the Imperious
Leader could only speculate.
     Baltar was placed in command of a Cylon battlestar, a
basestar as they were more commonly known, with the duty of
rounding up the last vestiges of his people in order to propose a
truce under the new leniency of the Cylon leadership.  Baltar was
not going to be fooled again.  He knew that the Leader, no matter
how different he was from his predecessor, would never allow the
humans to live freely once more.  This was simply a ruse to get
him to do their dirty work.  Well, he would not fall for that
again.
     His devious mind formed a plan that would allow him to seek
revenge against those who had betrayed him as well as put him in
good standing with his own people once more.  This was his last
chance to rejoin his own kind and claim his heritage.  He would
bring the fleet back to the Cylon capital under the guise that
they were captured.  There, they would mount a surprise attack
that would destroy the First City of the Empire and place the
Cylon Alliance in a maelstrom that would unravel their carefully
orchestrated control of the universe.  All the sentient races of
the galaxy would take up arms against their tormentors and
destroy the Cylon war machine once and for all.  Baltar would be
heralded as the greatest leader of his people and placed in a
position of honor that would yield him anything his heart
desired.  At least that was what he had planned.  If things
didn't work out the way he intended he could always hand them
over to the Cylons.  Playing both sides to see who was stronger,
that was how Baltar had lived his whole life and amassed his
fortune and fame.
     Well, it was a perfect plan that was ruined by two things:
Adama's stubbornness and Lucifer's impatience.  Two of his
greatest traits were used against him.  His aide, Lucifer, grew
impatient and seized an opportunity to further his own ambition
by mounting an attack on the Galactica while Baltar was in
negotiation with Adama on the surface of Kobol.  Baltar was
trapped inside of the tomb of the last Lord of Kobol while the
Cylons undid everything he had planned.
     After the attack, Baltar realized that there was no hope in
ever regaining Adama's trust again.  He decided that he had to
look out for himself from now on, which was what he was best at
anyway.  After regaining control of his baseship, Baltar set out
to destroy the humans once and for all to fulfill his mission for
the Imperious Leader.  But as he planned his next move, it
occurred to him that his usefulness to the Cylon cause would be
over once he succeeded.  His execution would resume and that
would be the end of that.  But Baltar was more devious than the
Leader expected and decided to prolong his victory until the
right opportunity presented itself.  He had to delay as long as
possible while still convincing the Imperious Leader that he was
the right man for the job.
     Time and time again he allowed the human fleet to slip
through his grasp, waiting for the right opportunity.  He waited
until he was a significant distance away from the Imperial City
so that the Leader might allow Baltar to continue to serve the
Empire.  At Arcta, he had the perfect trap laid out and almost
destroyed the human fleet.  But Adama had escaped once again and
Baltar had learned from this lesson.  The spoils of victory would
have had to been split with Vulpa, the garrison commander on
Arcta.  That would not be sufficient to insure his continued
survival.  He needed a dramatic victory under his command alone
to impress the Leader enough to allow him to survive.  The next
opportunity came at Gomoray.
     There, Baltar had three baseships under his command, more
than enough to insure a total victory over the last remnants of
humanity, a feat no Imperious Leader had yet accomplished.  When
Lucifer suggested that they call up reinforcements from Gomoray,
Baltar had refused, not wanting to share the credit with anyone.
To insure his glory, Baltar decided to lead the attack himself so
that he would be honored in a victory parade back on Gomoray
after the battle was over.  With so much jubilation and praise,
the Leader would have to let Baltar live and he would not make it
easy.  He had planned on making the city of Gomoray his personal
seat of power from which he would expand the Cylon dominion
outward, securing his usefulness to the machine race.  But fate
interjected into his plans again when the legendary Commander
Cain rose from the dead and defeated Baltar with the combined
force of two battlestars.
     When Baltar mounted a second assault, Cain had out thought
him once more by already launching an attack on Gomoray.
Baltar's incompetence was further increased when he learned that
the Imperious Leader was on Gomoray, witnessing his failure
firsthand.  Baltar might not have escaped this catastrophe had
the Imperious Leader not been seriously damaged in the battle.
This fact alone saved Baltar's head and allowed him to continue
the hunt for Adama.  But his pursuit would not last long when he
was placed in prison under a flag of truce after proposing a
union to fight the mysterious lights that plagued both groups.
It was there that he had met Count Iblis, the self-proclaimed
leader of the Galactica and its fleet.  The Council of Twelve had
obviously been beguiled by this charlatan, but Baltar had not.
He recognized his voice, belonging to none other than the Cylon
Imperious Leader!  But that was impossible, for the programming
that made up the ultimate Cylon was devised a thousand yahren
ago.  Yet it seemed so clear to Baltar.
     At that moment, Baltar's thoughts were interrupted by a
deafening sound in the sky.  Baltar covered his ears and looked
up to see those same demons that had brought him to his doom
streaking above him.  Their blinding light burned Baltar's eyes
and made him squint as he looked up at his attackers.  Then,
suddenly, the lights mysteriously vanished from where they came.
Baltar was just managing to compose himself when a voice startled
him and he swung around to see a face he thought he would never
see again.
     "Hello, old friend," said Count Iblis.  He appeared exactly
as Baltar had last seen him aboard the Galactica's prison barge.
Dressed in white garments with a dazzling cape of the same color
laying over his shoulders.
     "You. . ."
     "Yes, it is I Baltar.  Don't tell me you have forgotten our
last encounter."
     "I didn't think I would ever see you again," said Baltar,
moving closer to the figure in front of him to verify his
reality.  "Or anyone else for that matter."
     "Did I not say to you at our last meeting that all was not
lost."
     "You could have fooled me," scoffed Baltar as he sat down on
a nearby rock.
     "You are alive are you not?"
     "Barely.  That cursed Adama placed me here as a reward for
my assistance in his attack against the Cylons."
     "Yes, I know about the events you speak of," said Iblis
matter of factly.  "But you have managed to survive, albeit a
meager existence."
     "No thanks to you."
     "Still harboring ill feelings towards me, Baltar?  Is that
anyway to address your deliverer?"
     "My deliverer. . .," hope filled his voice as Baltar rose
from his seat.  "You mean that you will get me off this barren
world?"
     "Of course."
     "To what do I owe this benevolent act," he asked
suspiciously.
     "It is not benevolent at all," admitted Iblis.  "We share a
common foe, you and I."
     "You ask nothing in return?"
     "Only your continued service in the ranks of the Cylon
Empire."
     "So you are not in league with Adama?" said Baltar
suspiciously.
     "On the contrary, I intend to destroy him.  With your help
of course."
     "Then it is agreed.  We are in a common cause."
     "Be careful who you ally yourself with, Baltar," said Iblis
maliciously.  "You do not yet fathom the depths of your
allegiance to me, or the consequences.
     "I made no such commitment!"
     "Indeed?  Well, in time you may come to realize it but I
will allow you to indulge in your fantasy for now."  Iblis
suddenly turned, his white cape swirling around him as he
prepared to leave.  "Farewell, Baltar.  Your Cylon friends will
soon be arriving."  Iblis turned to leave but Baltar shouted out
to stop him.
     "Will I ever see you again?" cried out the desperate voice
of a marooned man.
     "Of that I am confident."
     At that moment the short range communicator in Baltar's
possession came to life and short bursts of static sprang forth
from the speaker.  He focused his attention on the machine,
tuning into the frequency it had found.  Baltar turned to look
back on the Count, but there was no one there.

     The Battlestar Galactica sailed majestically across the
heavens, guiding its fleet of refugees like a shepherd leading
lost sheep.  Inside, Colonel Apollo walked down the many
corridors of the Galactica into the officers' lounge, where he
spotted the individual he had been seeking out.
     "Omega," said Apollo as he approached the booth the tall
man's brown haired head was poking out over.
     Omega made a motion to stand up but Apollo waived him down
as he rounded the booth to talk to the young bridge officer.
     "I have tomorrow's work sheet for you to examine," said
Apollo as he glanced up and saw that Omega had company.
     "Flight Sergeant Rigel!  I didn't see you there."
     "That's all right, Colonel.  Omega and I were just taking a
break from the rigors of bridge duty.
     Apollo glanced back and forth between them and saw the way
the two were looking at each other.  His cheeks began to flush as
he came to the conclusion that he was interrupting something
private and decided to go about his business.
     "Oh, I see," said Apollo.  "Well, then I won't keep you two
from your relaxation any longer.  We can go over this tomorrow.
See you at the start of the shift."
     Apollo tried his best to make a gracious exit but backed up
into a waiter who was carrying a tray full of drinks to the table
next to them.  Apollo helped the waiter regain his balance and
then flashed a smile back at the table he had left and hurriedly
exited the lounge.
     "I don't think I've ever seen Apollo quite so flustered
before," said Rigel in amusement.
     "Me either," replied her companion.  "I wonder why."  A
crooked smile broke across his face after that last comment.
     Rigel saw the wicked expression on Omega's face and gave him
a jab in the stomach with her elbow.  She had a hard time
figuring him out lately, but she thought she was getting better.
Ever since their shared experiences when the Cylons had assumed
command of the bridge, Omega and her had been spending more time
with each other.  They weren't officially dating but they didn't
seem to be spending any of their free time with anyone else.
Omega was just one of those slow types and Rigel realized that
she was going to have to be patient and wait for him to decide on
his feelings for her.  She picked up her drink and took a sip out
of it while she looked at Omega, trying to decipher the
expression on his face.

     "All right warriors, lay them on the table and let's see
what you've got," said Pollux as he spread his hand before him.
     The other men stared mystified at his cards, unable to
believe that he could have won the seventh hand in a row.  One by
one they threw their cards down in disgust as Pollux raked in his
reward.
     "In all my yahrens, I've never seen such a winning streak,"
muttered Jolly as he glared at the cards that had betrayed him
yet again.
     "It's all in the genes," commented Pollux, reminding them
all of his relation to Starbuck.
     "I just hope you have enough sense to lose a few hands to
your future superior officers," said Boomer.  "If not, then your
tour here might be more than you can handle.  For instance,
cleaning out the turboflushes at night. . ."
     "Patrol duty in the refuse center," added Giles.
     "And don't forget the inspections of the engineering
section," said Jolly.
     "Yes, I hear the noise levels in there can cause you to go
deaf for a secton," added Boomer.
     "All right, all right, I get the idea," said Pollux.  He had
heard enough and if these were the ideas coming off the tops of
their heads he didn't want to hear what they would make him do if
they really thought about it.  He was sure there were far more
grueling duties in the fleet than those he had just heard.
     "Besides, I haven't enlisted yet."
     "That's only because the next group of cadets don't start
their training for another two sectons."
     "What's the matter, Boomer.  Afraid that I'll break your
flying records on the simulator?" taunted Pollux.
     "What flying records?" said Boomer in confusion.
     "The ones for taking the longest, most cautious way to
complete a mission."
     The room erupted in laughter over that remark.  Everyone
knew that Boomer was one of the best pilots on the Galactica, but
not the most daring.  His flying tactics were drastically
different from Apollo's and Starbuck's but Boomer had stated that
he had simply taken a better route to solve the problem, one that
would ensure that he survive in one piece.  But no one would ever
doubt his bravery or courage.  If heroism was needed, Boomer had
plenty of it to give for the fleet.
     "He sure has you pinned. . ." began Jolly before the blare
of the klaxon drowned out his voice.
     "Okay everyone," shouted Boomer as he raced to grab his
helmet.  "Let's move it!"
     The warriors in the bunk room all filed out to catch their
transports to the launch bay while Pollux remained alone, unable
to join them in their endeavor.

     "Battlestations!" shouted Adama.  The bridge had awaken from
its quiet slumber and had become a bustling hive of activity in a
matter of microns.  It had always amazed Adama how his warriors
could go from relaxation to battle readiness in the wink of an
eye.  Maybe it was this ability to leap between the two so easily
that allowed them to keep their sanity in the chaos of war.
     "Report," shouted Adama at Athena as Rigel passed by and
assumed her station from the junior officer who was on duty.
     "Incoming vessels.  Warbook reads them as three man craft.
Cylon Raiders," said Athena.
     "Have Blue Squadron intercept them.  They may only be a
patrol and not a battleforce," deduced Adama.
     "Apollo?" said Adama as he searched for his son.  That was
the one thing he missed most about Tigh, besides his friendship.
Tigh had always seemed to be at Adama's side when he needed him,
as if he could read his thoughts and anticipate his orders before
he could give them.  Apollo on the other hand was still fresh off
fighter duty and was slow to take his position on the bridge, as
if being here during a battle was against every fibre in his
being.
     "Yes, sir.  All warriors assembled and ready to launch,"
reported Apollo as he ascended to Adama's position at the
pinnacle of the bridge.
     "How many are there, Athena?"
     "Approximately twenty, sir."
     "A scouting party?" questioned Apollo to his father.
     "Perhaps," replied Adama as he concentrated on the task at
hand.
     "Twenty-five microns and closing," reported Rigel.
     "Launch Blue Squadron," ordered Adama.

     Down in the launch bay, Boomer was going through his
preflight routine one more time before the order to launch came
through his helmetcom.
     "Is everyone ready?" asked Boomer to the pilots in his
squadron.  He was still uneasy leading all these men into battle,
only becoming squadron leader a short time ago.
     "Ready, sir," came back a young cadet fresh out of the
training program on the Galactica.
     "All set," replied Jolly more casually.
     Rigel's voice came over the com system at that moment.
     "Transferring launch control to Viper fighters.  Launch when
ready."
     Boomer depressed his turbo ignition button and felt the
force of acceleration thrust him back in his seat as his Viper
was catapulted out of the launch tube and into space.  The rest
of his team followed suit and in another few microns Blue
Squadron was on its way.
     "Form up," ordered Captain Boomer as his squadron maneuvered
into position.
     The Colonial Vipers streaked across the heavens to their
rendezvous with the enemy.  A foe that would stop at nothing
until all human life was extinct.
     "Wait. . ."  said Boomer into his helmet as the approaching
wall of Cylon Raiders bore down on them.  He waited until he was
sure they were in range, wanting to take out as many as he could
in the first volley.
     "Now!"
     The pilots opened fire simultaneously, pouring thousands of
ergons of energy into the approaching craft.  The first few rows
of Raiders exploded from the onslaught but the trailing craft
broke through in the wake of the debris.
     "They're heading for the fleet.  Break and pursue," ordered
Boomer as he rolled his Viper left in pursuit of a trio of Cylon
fighters.
     The rest of the squadron followed suit and broke off to
chase the machines down before they could reach the Galactica.
Boomer maneuvered his ship into position behind three Cylon
Raiders and fired his laser torpedoes at them, detonating the
trailing ship.  Several other enemy fighters exploded around him
as Commander Adama's strike wing performed their duties
flawlessly.
     "They're breaking off," said Jolly.
     "I see them, Jolly.  Okay, Blue Squadron, let's head back to
the Galactica."
     "Captain, I can't find my wingmate," came Lieutenant
Monroe's voice over the intercom.
     "Jolly, you're with me.  Let's see if we can find Cadet
Ridge."
     Boomer and Jolly's ships angled back towards the departing
Cylon fighters.
     Ridge piloted his Viper in an effort to evade his Cylon
pursuer.  Laserblasts erupted around him as he fought to remain
in control and avoid the perilous situation he was in.
     "Captain. . ." came Ridge's voice over Boomer's helmetcom.
     "I see you, Ridge.  Break left and we'll take care of him
for you."
     "I can't shake him," came back Ridge's voice in terror.
     "Just hold on, Cadet.  We're coming."
     Boomer thrust his Viper forward at dangerous speed in order
to get to the Cylon in time.  The machine pilot was good.  Boomer
couldn't seem to line him up in his sights without risking a shot
at Ridge.
     "Jolly, can you take him?"
     "Sorry, skipper.  I can't get a lock."
     "Boomer!" shouted Ridge's voice.
     Boomer decide that he could wait no more and released
several volleys in the Cylon's direction.  The Raider exploded
before him, but not before it could destroy Cadet Ridge's ship.
     "Ridge?" said Boomer, seeking out the cadet's Viper beyond
the Cylon debris.  "Ridge!  Can you hear me?"  No answer was
forthcoming and a solemn expression came over Boomer's face.
     "You did your best, Boomer," consoled Jolly.  "There wasn't
anything you could do."
     "Yeah," returned Boomer, not quite believing there wasn't
anything he could have done to stop the young man's death.  The
two warriors rolled their Vipers and headed back for home,
leaving their comrade to his final resting place.

     The Cylon centurion entered the command room of the super
basestar.  The command room was the nerve center of the ship,
located close to the computer banks where the ship's primary
functions were controlled.  It was a small room with a control
panel in the front and a smaller version of the ship's throne
room chair located in the center.  Lucifer was currently standing
off to the side of his command chair, waiting for the centurion's
report.
     "By your command."
     "Report, centurion," said Lucifer.
     "Our patrol has encountered Colonial Vipers. . ."
     "And has located the Battlestar Galactica," finished
Lucifer.  So often, during his tenure as Baltar's second in
command he had been in this position and listened to Baltar guess
what he was about to say.  It had been a rather annoying habit
that Lucifer had to endure for a long time.  Now he wanted to see
what it was like being on the other side and predicting the next
phrase to be uttered by a junior officer.
     Lucifer waited for the centurion to continue but he realized
that the centurion had nothing more to say.  Lucifer had finished
his report for him and had not asked him any more questions.  It
was a pity that these centurions did not have the intelligence
needed for Lucifer to master this skill he was attempting.
     "Do you have anything else to report?"
     "Our patrol has suffered heavy casualties.  The patrol
leader was lost in the battle."
     Another veteran pilot lost in battle, thought Lucifer.  Why
couldn't these patrols withdraw immediately after locating the
human fleet.  Every patrol leader was the same.  Locate the fleet
and attack the Colonial interceptors before suffering heavy
losses and returning to the baseship.
     "Return to your post and prepare our fighters for an
immediate attack."
     "By your command," droned the centurion as he turned and
left the command room to carry out his orders.
     Lucifer had just lost his best flight leader going into a
major battle, what else could possibly go wrong.  A report was
coming in from a distant Cylon transport entering the quadrant.
Lucifer bent over to look at the incoming message as it appeared
on the screen in front of the centurion managing the station.
What he read did not please him in the slightest.
     "Oh, frack!"

     "Blue squadron reporting in," said Colonel Apollo to his
father.
     "Casualties?"
     "One," said Apollo solemnly.  "Cadet Ridge."
     Adama's shoulders hunched down at the news.  Every time the
Galactica trained new warriors to replace the seasoned ones that
had been lost in combat, they seemed to be shot down on their
first missions.  Something would have to be done about the
academy that had been set up in the fleet.  Perhaps Commander
Croft would appreciate a change of duty from his command of the
prison barge, thought Adama.
     "Colonel, that's the fourth pilot we've lost in their first
combat mission.  I want you to send a message to Captain Romirez
that he is relieved of duty, effective immediately.  In his
absence, appoint Commander Croft as head of training."
     "Croft?"
     "Do you have a problem with my selection?" asked Adama.
     "No, sir.  Croft performed above and beyond the call of duty
on the search and destroy mission on Arcta.  That's why I
recommended that he be returned to the service.  It's just that
he hasn't associated with Colonial warriors for any length of
time since his internment.  Don't you think we might be rushing
this assignment on him?"
     "No, because that's exactly what I want.  I don't want
someone who will associate with the men.  I want a man that our
trainees will hate so much that they will outperform one another
to get reassigned as quickly as possible.  The only way they
won't have to deal with Croft is if they graduate."
     "Understood," acknowledged Apollo, realizing the wisdom in
the Commander's decision.
     "I'll have him report for duty immediately."
     "Good, now in the meantime let's discuss our future battle
plans."
     "I don't understand, sir."
     "I'm talking about that Cylon behemoth that we encountered
outside of New Caprica."
     "But there hasn't been any sign of her since Starbuck and
Boomer sabotaged it in their escape."
     "Exactly.  That ship was too strong, too well built to be
crippled by such an insignificant demolitions operation," said
Adama, beginning to recall the time he was held captive on that
Cylon baseship.  "I was there, Apollo.  I saw it with my own
eyes.  It was the most magnificent engineering marvel I have ever
seen.  Even if they had dealt that ship a severe blow, it would
have been repaired by now.  No, she's out there somewhere,
waiting for us."
     "And what if we do find her?" questioned Apollo.  "She
carries the armament of two basestars and has a range that
exceeds our own."
     "Then we destroy it!" said Adama defiantly.  Then with less
conviction than before.  "Before it can destroy us."

     Boomer and Jolly sat in the officers' lounge contemplating
the universe over a mug of ambrosa.  Boomer was hit hard by Cadet
Ridge's death.  He wasn't sure why he was feeling his loss so
hard.  It wasn't like he hadn't lost men under his command
before.  Over a yahren ago he had lead the Galactica's forces
against a Cylon basestar while Starbuck and Apollo were
attempting to sabotage the enemy's long range scanners.  Several
warriors had met their ends in that battle, but this was
different.  This was a kid fresh out of the training academy who
didn't pass his baptism by fire.  Somehow he felt that he was
responsible for allowing that pilot to die.  But for the life of
him he couldn't figure out why.
     Pollux entered the room at that moment and joined a group of
warriors who were sitting in the corner.  The young man had
become quite attached to the Viper pilots on the Galactica and
they had become attached to him, for different reasons not the
least being their attempt to regain the credits they had lost to
him in pyramid.  Pollux's skill at that game had grown
considerably during his tutelage with Chameleon.  Lately, Pollux
had been staying with the warriors in their bunk room, eagerly
waiting to begin his training to become a Colonial warrior.
Boomer had asked him about Chameleon but the young man had simply
shrugged and said that his time with his father was over for now.
Boomer wasn't sure how to take that but Pollux didn't show signs
of anything but an amicable separation between the two.  He made
a note to search out Chameleon someday and find out what had
happened between the two men.  Boomer speculated that Chameleon
had probably shied away from his long lost son, not wanting the
rigors of parenting to weigh down on him.
     "You are worried about Pollux," said Jolly, shaking Boomer
out of his thoughts.  "Aren't you?"
     Boomer hadn't realized how long he had stared at his young
friend in the corner but it was obviously long enough for Jolly
to detect some connection between the two.
     "Yeah," confessed Boomer.  "The kid has kind of grown on
me."
     "You and the rest of the fleet," replied Jolly indicating
Pollux's popularity among the warriors.
     "Maybe I'm being overprotective.  But since Chameleon has
gone I feel it's my duty to look over him."
     "Are you sure you're not feeling a debt to his brother?"
suggested Jolly.
     Boomer winced at that last remark.  The death of Starbuck
had been weighing heavily on his conscience of late.  Starbuck
was the best friend he ever had and now he was gone.  Boomer had
stayed awake many a sleep period wondering if he could have
prevented his friend's loss if he would have been a little
faster.  He should have never separated himself from Starbuck's
squadron.  But the Cylon force had indicated an attack on the
rear of the fleet before luring him far away from his friend.  He
could still hear the echo of Starbuck's last words in his mind
before the comlink had suddenly severed and he saw an explosion
in the distance.
     "Maybe I am, Jolly.  Maybe I am."  Boomer continued to stare
at the young man in the corner, wondering if he could ever
command a squadron with Pollux in it or if he could ever lead
that young man to his death like Cadet Ridge.  He had already
lost a good friend.   He wasn't sure if he could bear to lose
that friend's half-brother.

     An honor guard lined both sides of the narrow strip
extending from the doorway leading inside the basestar to the
landing pad.  Lucifer walked out the parting doors and through
the double row of Cylon centurions to the end of the line where a
Cylon Raider was slowly lowering its ladder to allow their guest
to depart.  Lucifer questioned the centurion at the end of the
line before the lonto the deck of his ship.
     The figure finished exiting the Raider and slowly made his
way over to Lucifer, taking in the sight of the basestar as if he
was seeing it again for the first time.  He approached the
commander of the ship and stopped a few paces before him, bowing
regally and imitating the droning voice of a centurion in the
process.
     "By your command."
     "Hello, Baltar."
     "I see you still haven't gained a sense of humor," retorted
Baltar.  "How long has it been my mechanical friend?"
     "Not long enough."
     "Lucifer," said Baltar acting hurt by his last remark.
"Surely you have missed me, old friend."
     "I admit it has been rather dull since your leave of
absence."
     "Leave of absence," spat Baltar as the pain of his
incarceration brought back the anger inside of him.  "They
actually broke a flag of truce and imprisoned me with the refuse
of humanity."
     "How ever did you manage?" said Lucifer sarcastically.
     "It wasn't easy.  Standing next to common criminals who
would have liked nothing better than to separate me from my vital
organs," said Baltar as he recalled the agonies he had endured.
"Never knowing if you closed your eyes for the last time during
sleep period.  In fact, I never would have escaped if it hadn't
been for some Borellian Nomen.  Unfortunately, they didn't
approve of my company and deposited me on the nearest rock they
could find. Lucky for me a Cylon patrol managed to pass by and I
contacted them to arrange for my transport here."
     "Interesting. . ."
     "Is that all you have to say to me, Lucifer.  Interesting?"
     "I was just remarking about your story.  I was curious how
you arranged for your release.  While you have been gone, one of
our basestars was destroyed by the Galactica.  It appears that
she did not detect the battlestar on her scanners until it was
too late.  Evidently, someone managed to sabotage her long range
scanners prior to the battle."
     "That is interesting, Lucifer," said Baltar and then adding
hurriedly.  "I wish I could help you identify the criminals
behind such an underhanded deed, but you see I had escaped before
then."
     "I see," said Lucifer, not revealing to Baltar the deception
he had detected.  He knew from his interrogation of Commander
Adama that Baltar had been marooned by his human captors,
undoubtedly after providing them with something useful in
exchange for his release.  Quite probably the necessary technical
knowledge needed to defeat a Cylon basestar.  "Most unfortunate
indeed."
     "Well," said Baltar, eager to change the subject so that
Lucifer could not detect his deception.  "I see you have risen in
the ranks since I have been away."  He walked forward with
Lucifer in tow as the two passed through the doorway and entered
the interior of the baseship.
     "Yes, I am now in full command of this basestar.  The latest
that Cylon technology has to offer.  It carries the armament of
two baseships and holds six squadrons in her landing bays."
     "Impressive," said Baltar in admiration.  "I can hardly wait
to lead her into battle."
     "You lead this ship into battle?" asked Lucifer.
     "Yes, I have been in contact with your Imperious Leader.  He
is most displeased with your performance as of late."  Baltar
stopped where he was and turned to face his Cylon colleague.  "I
have been restored to my rightful command."
     "You are in command of this baseship?" said Lucifer in
disbelief.  In the time he had waited for Baltar's arrival he had
never thought of this possibility ever happening.  How could the
Leader reappoint Baltar to command?  After all the errors he had
made and Lucifer had tried to cover up unsuccessfully.
     "It wasn't hard," gloated Baltar triumphantly as he resumed
his march.  "After your mishandling of the attack on Kobol and
your recent debacle when you had the Galactica under your
control, you're fortunate the Leader doesn't disconnect you."
     Lucifer stared at Baltar speechless.  He couldn't believe
that this was all happening.  He must be experiencing some
malfunction, a mechanical hallucination.  There must be an error
in his programming.
     But Baltar continued on, furthering the nightmare Lucifer
was experiencing.  "But because of my recommendation and the fact
that you are of the same series, he is generous enough to give
you the benefit of the doubt.  I convinced him that you showed
promise and that, with a little more experience under your belt,
you might be given another chance to command in the future."
     "The Leader selected you over me?" said Lucifer, finally
composing himself to say something.  "After you nearly got his
eminence killed at Gomoray?"
     "Ah, but I didn't know about a second battlestar aiding the
Galactica.  My battle plans were perfect for dealing with one
Colonial battlestar, not two.  It wasn't my fault that Cylon
intelligence neglected to inform me of the existence of Commander
Cain's ship."
     Lucifer stared at the floor as he finally accepted defeat.
     "Don't worry, my friend," spoke up Baltar as he noticed his
companion's downtrodden form.  "The Leader hasn't given up on you
yet.  He simply feels that you need more time under my tutelage
before you are given your next command."
     Lucifer looked up sharply after Baltar's last statement.  He
had detected something in that speech that he hoped he had
misunderstood.  This nightmare couldn't continue on anymore.  It
had to end.  Looking ahead, he noticed that Baltar had entered
the throne room and quickly followed him in.
     "You mean I am to remain here as your second in command?"
said Lucifer, hoping he had misheard Baltar.
     "Of course!" exclaimed the human.  "I wouldn't have it any
other way.  Just think, Lucifer, you and I together again.  What
a team we will make.  The Galactica doesn't stand a chance."
     Baltar walked around the command pedestal before him to the
stairs that would allow him to ascend to his throne.  He seated
himself in his chair with a sigh of relief.  For too long he had
been away, denied his rightful destiny to rule.  Now he was back
where he belonged, in command of the most powerful battleship
ever assembled and poised to achieve the greatest victory in the
history of the Cylon Empire.  The Imperious Leader would be
impressed with Baltar's performance, thinking him changed after
his incarceration.  He would allow him to live and serve the
Empire on the frontier, bringing in new worlds under the Cylon
dominion.
     "Go, my friend and prepare our forces for battle.  I assume
you have the coordinates of the Galactica?"
     "Of course, Baltar."
     "Then carry out your orders.  Our long awaited victory over
the humans is at hand."
     Lucifer departed the throne room as the musical chime of the
doors sounded, signalling their sealing.
     Baltar looked around him at his new, but familiar
surroundings.  "Your end is near, Adama," said Baltar out loud as
he chuckled to himself in anticipation of victory.  "Much sooner
than you think."

     "Apollo, where are you taking me?" asked Cassiopeia as the
young colonel lead his companion down the narrow corridors of the
Galactica to an, as of yet, unrevealed destination.
     "Just wait and you'll see."
     Apollo rounded another corner and stopped before a double
width door.  "We're here."
     "Where are we," asked the former socialator.
     "About ten decks below the bridge."
     "I mean what is this place," asked Cassiopeia again,
realizing that Apollo would explain himself when he was ready.
     "This is a place I've been meaning to show you."
     Cassiopeia wondered what the younger man meant by that
statement when he opened the doors and lead her into a dark room
full of stars.
     "Apollo, it's beautiful!"
     "I thought you'd like it," said Apollo proudly.
     "What is this place?" asked Cassie while she gazed in wonder
at the magnificent room.  All around her she was surrounded by
shiny points of light, as if she was actually in the heavens.
     "This is the Galactica Hall of Honor, or more commonly
called, the Star Dome."
     "It's magnificent."
     "Every point of light is in honor of someone who has lost
their life in the line of duty.  It has been here ever since this
battlestar was launched over five hundred yahrens ago."
     "I've never heard of this place."
     "Not many have.  It's only used for very special occasions.
That way the solemnness of this memorial is kept intact."  Apollo
walked around gazing at the view above him.  "I come here often
to remember those who gave their lives for us."
     Apollo walked over to a console tucked in the corner and
punched up a display for a certain warrior.  In the top of the
dome, a star shined brightly and expanded in luminescence,
indicating its importance amongst the others.  Then a computer
enhanced voice was broadcast over the hidden speakers to the
room's occupants.
     "Tigh," the voice began, "Colonel.  Lost in the line of duty
aboard a Cylon basestar.  Awarded the Order of Trallan for
sacrificing his life to save his commanding officer."  The star
dimmed and blended in with the rest of the starscape as Apollo
manipulated the controls to bring another star into focus on the
opposite wall.
     "Serina, Field Lieutenant of Blue Squadron.  Lost in the
line of duty on the planet Kobol."
     "Hello, Apollo," said Serina's voice.  "I know if you are
listening to this then I am gone.  But I want you to know that I
was proud to serve under you, for the short time we had.  Take
care of Boxey, I'm sure he'll make a fine warrior someday.
Remember, I'll always love you."
     The voice died away and silence filled the room.  Cassiopeia
looked over at Apollo and saw that he was bent over the console,
trying to compose himself before turning toward her.  She didn't
know how much he missed his former wife or that he was still
burdened by her death.
     "That was very touching, Apollo."
     "I found it among her possessions," said Apollo as he turned
back towards her.  "Somedenly
realized what he was about to do.  "Apollo. . ." she said but
then the soothing feminine voice was heard once more.
     "Starbuck, Lieutenant, Blue Squadron.  Lost in battle while
saving the life of a fellow warrior.  Awarded the Colonial Medal
of Honor, two gold star clusters, one silver star cluster, three
distinguished service medallions."
     That was nice she thought as she looked upon the star that
symbolized Starbuck's place in this hall.  Then, without warning,
a voice from the past intruded on her thoughts.
     "Hi.  I guess I'm not here if you're listening to this,
which is too bad because I sure didn't see it coming if I am
dead.  For the record, let it show that Lieutenant First Class
Starbuck served his people to the best of his abilities and was
willing to make the ultimate sacrifice.  I'm sure I died
heroically because that's the only way I would have it.  Anyway,
I just wanted to say thank you to all the people that made my
life the way it was.  To Apollo, for being the close friend you
were and the brother I never had.  To Boomer, for being the buddy
that you were to me.  To Chameleon, I don't care what the tests
said, you are the only man I would ever want to be my father.
And if you did lie to me, which I have a sneaky suspicion you
did. . . thanks.  And finally, this last part is directed to
Cassiopeia.  Cass, I'm not sure what to say.  I never thought of
ever getting sealed with anyone until I met you.  I know that
I've been dragging my feet about our relationship for a long time
now but I was just afraid to show you how much I cared about you.
Even heroes can experience cowardice from time to time.  I love
you and I always will.  Take care."
     Starbuck's voice died away and his star faded into the
background until it was the same illumination as the ones next to
it.  Be it colonels or privates or engineers, all who were
memorialized here held an equal place among the heavens.
     Tears streamed down Cassie's cheeks as she looked up at her
lover's star.  She always knew he was holding back on her, but it
felt good to actually hear him say how much he loved her.  All
the pain she was carrying inside of her came rushing back and
then flooded out with her tears as she finally accepted his
death.  Apollo stood by her now, offering his support.  She
reached out to him and let him embrace her in his arms as she
said goodbye to the man she loved.

     "Hello, grandpa," said Boxey as he walked up the stairs to
where Adama was standing, supervising the normal bridge activity.
     "Boxey," said Adama in delight.  "What are you doing here?"
     "Athena let us out of instruction early so I thought I'd
come up and see you."
     "Well I'm glad you did.  I haven't seen you in a while."
     "I know," said Boxey sadly.  "You've been busy."
     "Yes, but that's no excuse not to see my grandson.  Tell you
what, I'm getting off duty soon here so how would you like it if
I showed you the launch bay."
     "Really?  Where you keep all the Vipers?"
     "Sure, and if you are good I may even let you sit in one.
How does that sound?"
     "Great!" said the boy in glee.  "Can Muffy come too?"
     "Of course.  Now you wait down there while I get ready to
leave."
     "Okay, come on Muffy."
     The mechanical daggit barked in acknowledgement as Boxey
descended down to the level his friend was on and walked over to
the door.  Adama looked at them as they left, amazed at how a
young boy could bring so much joy to an old man's heart.
     "Omega, I'm sure you can handle things from here."
     "Yes, sir," said Omega.  A broad smile was on his face as he
too saw Boxey's expression when he was told he was going to sit
in a real Colonial fighter.  Adama left his station and joined up
with his grandson as the three figures left the bridge.

     Lucifer entered the throne room of the super basestar as he
had done so many times before.  Things were back to normal,
thought Lucifer in disgust.  How the Leader could do this to him
was unthinkable.  He would have to consult his contacts in the
higher echelon to determine where he had fallen out of favor with
the supreme Cylon.
     Lucifer waited in front of the throne while Baltar remained
with his back to him.  He couldn't figure out why Baltar hadn't
acknowledged his presence yet when he realized that he had not
given his readiness to obey orders speech.  It was a test by his
commander to determine Lucifer's obedience.  He would go along
with it, for now.
     "By your command."
     Baltar swiveled around to face him finally.  "Speak."
     "Our forces are standing by to launch.  A patrol has
confirmed the location of the Battlestar Galactica while avoiding
detection."
     "You see, things are running smoothly already.  Did you not
inform me that your last patrol was annihilated before
retreating?"
     "Shall I order our forces to attack?" said Lucifer,
pretending that he had not heard that last remark.
     "No."
     "No?  What then shall we do?" said Lucifer in his most
disrespectful voice.
     Baltar chuckled, amused by Lucifer's outward display of
annoyance.  "Careful, my friend.  You forget who is in command
now."
     "My apologies," said Lucifer, forcing the words out of his
mouth.  "What do you plan to do, if I may ask?"
     "Lucifer, time and again we have attacked the Galactica with
superior force.  Each time we have been repelled.  It is not
strength that will bring us victory.  No, what is required is
something else.  A deception, perhaps."
     "You should be extremely qualified for such an operation."
     Baltar stared back at Lucifer, biting back the angry retort
he had planned to say.  It was better not to let his Cylon friend
see that he could rattle him.
     "Do you know why it took your empire a thousand yahrens and
my assistance to win the war against the humans?" asked Baltar,
quickly changing the subject.
     "I haven't the faintest idea."
     "Because, my Cylon friend, one man fighting for survival is
worth ten of your finest centurions."
     "But we did succeed, Baltar.  Even if it had taken a hundred
yahrens or even ten thousand, the result would be the same.
Measurements of time do not concern us.  The human lifespan is
limited while the Cylon race is infinite."
     "I have always wondered why such a 'superior' race found us
to be such a threat to your order."
     "We perceive our empire as infinite.  Lasting forever until
the end of time.  You may not pose a significant threat now, but
in another millennium. . ."
     "How arrogant you are Lucifer!" roared Baltar in triumph,
detecting a flaw in his opponent's logic.  "All empires fall."
     "All human empires perhaps, but we are not human."
     Baltar chuckled in delight.  "My friend, you act more human
than many men I know."
     Lucifer preferred not to think about that statement too
long.  It was disrupting his electron flow and could cause a
short in his systems if he didn't watch it closely.
     "What are your orders," demanded Lucifer.
     "Prepare the attack force to launch."
     "To destroy the Galactica," deduced Lucifer.
     "No, they are not to destroy her, merely delay her.  We will
capture one or more of the trailing ships in the fleet.  I don't
want the passengers harmed.  There are to be used as hostages."
     "To trade for their surrender?  Surely Adama will never go
along with this?"
     "Not for a full surrender.  Not just yet.  I only want one
man to surrender himself to me.  Adama!"
     "The Galactican commander?" said Lucifer, remembering the
short time he was a prisoner on this ship.  "Why would he do such
a thing?"
     "Because, Lucifer, you do not yet understand the human
tendency towards self-sacrifice," said Baltar as he wrung his
hands in delight over his plan.  "He'll do it and with no
encouragement from me."
     "And then what?"
     "Then, without his leadership, the Galactica will fall.  We
will attack and utterly destroy them.  And," said Baltar pausing
to contemplate the best part of his plan.  "Adama will be mine!"

     "Can I climb in?" asked Boxey, ready to explode if he
didn't.
     "Of course," replied Adama as he walked up the steps behind
his grandson as Boxey settled into the pilot's seat.
     "Now, in front of you is the control stick that the pilot
uses to fly the Viper.  You see these three buttons," asked
Adama.  He waited for Boxey to nod his head before he continued.
"The one on the right activates the retro thrusters.  The one in
the middle is for the turbos which propel the Viper at speeds
close to light speed.  And the one on the left. . ."
     "Is to fire the lasers!" exclaimed Boxey.
     "That's right.  When you depress this button you release
millions of ergons of energy."
     "Like this," said Boxey as he pushed down on the button.
Boxey waited for the pulses of laser to shoot out of the fighter
and down the launch tube, but nothing happened.
     "Exactly," commented Adama with a grim smile.
     "How come nothing happened?"
     "Because I had the technician shut down the power before we
came down here.  You wouldn't think I'd let a young cadet handle
a dangerous machine like this without any training?  Now what
kind of a commander would I be?"
     "Does that I mean I won't be punished?" said the youth
hopefully.
     "Now what kind of a commander would I be if I let discipline
slip in the ranks?"
     Boxey's head bowed down as he realized he wasn't getting out
of trouble.  "I guess not a very good one."
     "Good, I'm glad you agree.  A Viper is not a toy, Boxey.  I
wanted to show you that this is a very dangerous machine, one I
hope you will never have to fly in combat.  Now do you understand
why I brought you here?"
     "Yes, grandpa."
     "Fine, then I want you to go up to your room and think about
what I said.  And if you remember to say your prayers tonight,
then I won't mention this to your father.  Is it a deal."
     "You bet, grandpa.  Thanks."  Boxey gave Adama a warm hug
around the neck and then climbed down out of the spacecraft and
went to find his daggit.

     "Colonel," said Rigel as she bent over her scanner to
confirm what she was seeing.  "I'm picking up numerous flying
craft approaching us.  Tight formation."
     "Cylons," muttered Apollo.  "Battlestations," he called out
more loudly.  "Summon Commander Adama."
     "No need, Colonel," replied Adama as he entered the bridge.
"What's the situation."
     "We're tracking a Cylon task force approaching our rear
flank."
     "Have all squadrons launch when ready."
     "Sir," said Athena.  "The Cylon armada is breaking up,
splitting into two columns on either side of the fleet."
     "They're bypassing the rest of the fleet and heading
straight for the Galactica," said Apollo.
     "And dividing our forces in the process," concluded Adama.
     "Commander, all squadrons stand ready to launch," reported
Rigel.
     "Launch," ordered Adama.

     The Viper pilots launched their craft out of the tubes and
into space.  One after another, the Colonial machines of
destruction were propelled into space and on course to a
rendezvous with the enemy.
     "Okay everyone, let's show them how it's done," said Boomer
to the rest of the pilots.  "Bojay?"
     "Yeah, Boomer?"
     "Take Silver Spar Squadron to the right."
     "Will do," said Bojay.
     "Blue and Red squadrons follow me.  We'll hit them on the
left," said Boomer.
     Bomer waited another moment until the Cylon force came in
closer.  "Break!"  The Colonial Vipers peeled off into two
groups.
     Greenbean lined up a Cylon Raider in his sights and fired
his weapons as the Cylon tried to evade left, but to no avail.
Sheba closed in on a Raider as it pursued a fellow warrior.  With
microns to spare, she launched her laser torpedoes and detonated
the enemy fighter into a million pieces.  Boomer was trailing a
Cylon fighter himself and scored his third kill in as many
centons.
     So far the battle was going well, thought Boomer as he
destroyed another Cylon fighter.  Only a few ships had made it to
the Galactica and her laser turrets had handled them.  But
something didn't feel right.  He didn't know what but this whole
battle was somehow wrong to him.

     Apollo was feeling the same thing at that moment.  The
Cylons were doing their best to make it look like the Colonials
were winning, but something inside told him that this was all a
ruse.
     "Father, something's not right."
     "I know, Apollo.  I feel it too," said Adama gravely.  "Have
Lieutenant Boomer take a few fighters and check out our rear.
Maybe the Cylons didn't bypass all our ships."

     "Boomer!" came Apollo's voice over his headset.
     "Yes, Apollo."
     "I want you to take a few warriors and check out the rear of
the fleet.  Something tells me this is too easy."
     "My thoughts too," said Boomer as he switched to inter-
fighter communications.  "Jolly, Sheba?"
     "Right here," replied Sheba.
     "Yeah, skipper," said Jolly.
     "Follow me, we're going to check out the rear and see what
the Cylons are up to."
     "Right with you," said Jolly as he depressed his turbos to
catch up with Boomer.  Sheba followed suit and the three Vipers
raced back along the fleet, looking for any Cylon activity.
     "I don't see anything, Boomer," said Sheba.
     "Yeah I know.  That's what worries me."  Boomer continued to
look around, wondering why he couldn't shake the feeling that
something was terribly wrong.
     "Wait a micron.  The Celestra!  It's gone!" shouted Boomer.

     "Gone!" said Adama in fury.  "Three ships vanished without a
trace."
     "It must have happened during the battle, while all our
forces were engaged," said Apollo.
     "No sign of wreckage or debris?"
     "No, sir.  Bojay is still out checking but it looks like
they just disappeared without any warning," said Boomer.
     "All right," said Adama, trying to bring the situation under
control before panic spread throughout the fleet.  "We'll send
patrols out looking for them.  Maybe they got lost or were
avoiding Cylon pursuit. . ."
     "Hello, old friend," came a familiar voice over the monitor
screen next to where the warriors were conversing.
     "Baltar!" said Adama in a voice that betrayed nothing but
pure hatred from uttering that name.
     "I'm glad you still remember me.  You didn't think I'd be
marooned on that worthless lump of rock forever, did you?"
     "I should have killed you when I had the chance," said
Adama, barely restraining the urge to rip apart the monitor just
to wipe that evil grin off Baltar's face.
     "Yes, perhaps you should have.  But I'm afraid we have more
urgent business to discuss.  Namely, three ships that were
formerly under your protection."
     "What have you done with them," asked Adama, slightly
wounded by Baltar's reference to his failure to protect the
people on board.
     "Why nothing, yet.  The crew is perfectly safe, for now.
How long depends on how willing you are to cooperate with my
demands."
     "What do you want, Baltar," said Adama impatiently.
     "Your surrender, of course," smiled back his nemesis.
     "I will never surrender this fleet."
     "You don't have to, Adama. I'm afraid I failed to make my
demand clear.  I don't want your fleet.  I want you."
     "You will release those ships if I do what you ask?"
     "Father!  You can't seriously. . ."  But Adama raised his
hand and cut Apollo off before he could finish.
     "Of course.  Once you are safely aboard my ship your people
will be free to go."
     "How do I know you will do what you promise."
     "Once I have determined that you are en route here,
unescorted, I will release your ships.  If you make any attempt
to turn back or launch even one fighter, I will destroy them,"
said Baltar maliciously.  "You have one centaur, Adama.  Anymore
and I will turn my machine friends loose on those defenseless
vessels."
     "I'll be there."

     "I'm looking forward to it," said Baltar from his command
room and then severed the transmission.
     "Do you really believe that he will go through with this
insane bargain?" questioned Lucifer.
     "Of course," roared Baltar triumphantly.  "He has no other
choice.  He will never put the lives of those people at risk.  If
there is any chance to save them he will try.  That will be his
doom."
     "So you are actually going to release those ships safely
back to the Galactica?"
     "Why not?  It doesn't matter where they are.  Once we have
Adama we will launch a devastating attack.  With the fleet in
chaos and searching for a new leader, they will be utterly
crushed."   Baltar departed the room and began preparations for
greeting Adama in his throne room.
     "As you say, Baltar," said Lucifer in doubt.

     "Father!  I can't believe you're going through with this,"
said Apollo.
     "Don't try to change my mind.  I've made my decision."
     "But it's insane!  By the Lords of Kobol you can't possibly
believe that Baltar will keep his promise!"
     "He doesn't have to.  What this gives us is the chance to
get our people back and that's a chance I'm willing to take."
     "Commander, I agree.  But there is no way Baltar is not just
going to turn around and attack the fleet after he has you safely
aboard," said Boomer.
     "I know that.  Now I have a plan if you two would give me a
centon to explain," said Adama as he began to outline his scheme.

     "Launch bay reports ready, sir," said Rigel.
     "Get me, Baltar," said Apollo to Omega.
     "Channel open."
     "Captain Apollo, how nice to see you again."
     "It's Colonel now, Baltar," replied Apollo.
     "Promoted you did they?  At least Adama rewards his henchmen
now and then."
     "We're ready.  Commander Adama will be launching in a Viper.
As soon as he clears the Galactica I want our ships to be
released."
     "Oh they will be, my boy.  After Adama is within range of my
basestar and we have verified that he is not being followed by a
squadron of your illustrious pilots.  You have my word."
     The transmission ended and Apollo sighed in relief.
     "Everything's ready, Commander," said Apollo into his
headset.  "He won't release them until your within range."
     "I figured as much," said Adama seated in his Viper.  "It's
going to be close, Apollo.  Let's make it count."
     "Yes, sir.  Launch when ready.  And may the Lords of Kobol
be with you."
     "Thank you, son."
     Adama launched his fighter out the tube and cleared the
Galactica.  He angled his Viper away from the battlestar, taking
one long, last look at his ship before he proceeded on his
mission.  He didn't often get the chance to see the Galactica
from space and wanted to cherish this moment, since it might be
his last.  But he was too elated to be flying a Viper again to
start worrying about the odds of his survival.  Adama guided the
sleek flying machine back towards the rear of the fleet and
towards Baltar's flagship.
     Activating the communication channel and tuning into the
Cylon frequencies, Adama began the first phase of his plan.
     "Baltar, this is Adama."
     "We read you, Adama."
     "I'm en route to you and should be arriving in six centons."
     "Confirmed.  Remember, no tricks or the lives of those
civilians will be on your head."
     "No tricks, Baltar."
     "Good.  I look forward to seeing you again, old friend."
     Adama turned off the channel and continued on his journey.
He was tempted to scrap the mission and land on the basestar so
that he could get a chance to put his hands around Baltar's
throat and finish the job he had started on Kobol.

     "You see, Lucifer," gloated Baltar from his chair in the
command room.  "My plan is working.  Soon Adama will be brought
before me and your Imperious Leader can have the fate of humanity
in his hands."
     "Your plan is working. . . so far."
     "You doubt me?"
     "No, Baltar, not you.  I doubt the Galactica commander's
willingness to participate in your plan."
     "But you heard him yourself.  He's on his way here right
now."
     "He appears to be willing to surrender.  But there is still
time for them to attack.  Your plan will not be a complete
success for another five centons."
     "Just you watch, Lucifer.  I will make you eat those words
before the centaur is over."
     "We shall see, Baltar.  We shall see."

     "I hope his plan works," said Apollo as he looked over
Omega's shoulder at the monitor.
     "His plans generally do," replied Omega.
     "Is he within range of Baltar's ship?"
     "Not for another sixty microns."

     Adama glanced down at his chronometer until it ticked down
to zero, indicating he was within range of the basestar.  The
ship now appeared in the distant.  Hesitating for a brief micron,
to make sure everything was in place, Adama opened the
communication channel.
     "Baltar, this is Adama.  I'm within range of your ship and
have visual contact."
     "Affirmative, Adama.  We verify your position."
     "Release those ships at once!"
     "With pleasure."
     Adama looked down at his scanner and saw that the three
ships were now moving away from the super basestar at maximum
speed.
     "I want to talk to my people, to make sure they have been
treated well."
     "That was not a part of our bargain," said Baltar,
suspicious of Adama's motives.
     "Surely you will allow me to verify that their crews are
safely aboard and not in your detention cells?"
     "Very well, Adama," conceded Baltar.  "But if you diminish
your speed or deviate from your course, I will open fire and blow
them out of the stars!"
     "Agreed."  Adama terminated communication with the basestar
and opened a channel to the Celestra.
     "Celestra, this is Commander Adama."
     "Commander?"
     "Is everyone aboard safely?" asked Adama, not having any
time to satisfy the young officer's curiosity.
     "Yes, everyone is aboard."
     "What about the other two ships?"
     "As far as I know, no one was boarded.  We were simply
escorted back to the basestar."
     "Very well, move out as fast as possible and prepare to
initiate evasive maneuvers."
     "Yes, sir.  But why. . ."
     "No time to explain.  Just carry out your instructions."
     "Yes, Commander."

     "Two centons until Adama's ship arrives," commented Lucifer.
     "Excellent.  Launch a patrol to lead him in," ordered
Baltar.  "After all, we wouldn't want him having any second
thoughts."

     "One hundred fifty microns to interception," reported Omega.
     "Are our ships out of their megapulsar range?" asked Apollo.
     "They're coming out of range. . . now.  But, sir, we don't
know if this super basestar has expanded the range of their heavy
weapons."
     "Let's just hope they haven't."
     "Sir, the Commander's Viper is still on course."
     "Patch me through, high frequency scramble," said Apollo
urgently.

     Adama looked down at his scanners and verified that the
Celestra and her entourage had departed weapons range.  The
basestar now loomed closer, looking like two open jaws ready to
devour him.
     "Father," came Apollo's voice over the intercom.
     "Apollo, if they should detect you. . ."
     "Our ships are out of range.  Turn back now!"
     "Apollo, we don't know the range of this new ship and every
micron I wait gives them a greater chance of escape."
     "While decreasing your own!  Father, turn back now.  We
can't afford to lose you," pleaded Apollo's voice.
     Adama glanced up and saw several Cylon fighters launching
towards him.  "It looks like I don't have a choice," said Adama
as he rolled his ship over in a tight turn taking him back
towards the fleet.

     "The Colonial fighter is retreating," said Lucifer, not too
surprised.
     "What!" roared Baltar.  "He can't do this to me.  We had a
deal!"
     "Evidently the bargain was not lasting."
     "Order our ships to open fire!"

     Adama's Viper was rocked by explosions as the Cylon task
force attacked without warning.  So much for his hope that Baltar
would want him alive, thought Adama.  He continued to evade his
pursuers as he flew at full turbos back to the fleet.

     "Son, I could use a little help," came Adama's voice over
the bridge.
     "Signal the attack code," ordered Apollo.

     Adama approached the tail end of the fleet, closing on the
Celestra as it made its dash for safety.  In another few microns,
those ships would be sitting targets for the Cylons.  Without
warning, a squadron of Vipers rocketed towards them from their
hiding place at the tail end of the fleet.
     "Silver Spar Squadron moving in," said Bojay.
     The Colonial warriors attacked with fury and wiped out the
first two walls of Raiders in the initial barrage.

     "Silver Spar leader reports they have made contact," said
Omega.  "But sir, their fuel cells are critically low."
     "That won't be a problem.  Launch Blue Squadron."
     "Blue Leader you are cleared to launch," said Rigel to
Boomer.
     Boomer launched down the tube along with the rest of Blue
Squadron as they hurtled out into space.  The pilots formed up
and proceeded towards the battle.

     "Captain Bojay to Commander Adama."
     "This is Commander Adama."
     "I thought you could use a hand, sir."
     "Thank you, Captain."
     The Vipers swarmed over the Cylon attack force, taking it by
total surprise.  A fierce fight enveloped as Cylon Raiders peeled
off from the main group to engage in single combat.  A Raider
moved into the center of Bojay's attack grid and the Galactican
warrior fired his laser torpedoes at the waiting target,
destroying it instantly.
     Commander Adama looked behind him to see a Cylon fighter
closing in.  Bracing himself, he depressed his braking thrusters,
sending the enemy ship hurtling past him.  Then, he immediately
ignited his turbos to pursue the Cylon before it could recover.
He followed the Raider closely, maneuvering to get a lock from
his targeting computer.
     "By the Lords of Kobol," exclaimed Adama in disgust.  "Let's
do it the old fashioned way."
     Adama lined the Raider up using his eyes and fired a volley
at his prey.  He scored a direct hit and the Cylon war machine
exploded in a dazzling display.
     "That's for Ila," said Adama softly.
     "Commander," interrupted Bojay.  "We're running on fumes
right now.  In another few microns we'll be dead in space."
     "That won't be a problem," came Boomer's voice over the
comlink.  "Blue Squadron reporting for duty, sir."
     "Excellent timing, Captain.  Provide cover fire for Silver
Spar Squadron to withdraw."
     "Yes, sir," said Boomer as his team raced into battle with
their lasers blazing, clearing a corridor for Bojay's squadron to
retreat through.

     "Our fighters have engaged Colonial Vipers," said Lucifer.
     "Vipers?  From where?  How many?"
     "An entire squadron.  Most likely the remnants of the forces
we engaged in previously."
     "Adama!" cursed Baltar.  "He left some of his warriors out
here to lay a trap for us.  But wait, that means they would be
low on fuel.  Continue the attack.  They won't have enough fuel
to fight for long."
     "Long range scans have reported more Vipers approaching,
from the Galactica.  They will undoubtedly arrive before their
comrades exhaust their fuel tanks.  Our patrol will be hopelessly
outnumbered."
     "Order them to retreat."
     "By your command," said Lucifer as he carried out the order.
     "I need time to think, to plan our next strategy," said
Baltar thinking out loud.
     "If you are still in command," muttered Lucifer as he exited
the room.
     Baltar looked up sharply, wondering if he had actually heard
what he thought Lucifer had said.  "Adama!" screamed Baltar in
disgust as he accepted defeat once more.

     "The Cylons are running!" exclaimed Sheba.
     "Shall we pursue, Commander," asked Boomer.
     "No, Captain.  You've done your job.  Let's head back to the
Galactica.  We have to get as far away from here as possible
before Baltar has a chance to regroup and strike again."
     "Lead the way, sir," said Boomer.
     "Thank you, Captain.  It's been awhile.
     The squadrons maneuvered into precise formation behind
Commander Adama's Viper.  Adama skillfully lead the parade into
the landing bay, making the cleanest landing anyone had ever
seen.

     "Now that's precision flying," said Athena from her station
as she monitored her father's approach.
     "And after all these yahrens. . ." said Apollo in pride.

     The rest of the warriors followed suit, trying vainly to
duplicate their Commander's landing, without much success.  The
last Viper finally secured itself to the Galactica after several
centons.

     "That's all of them, Apollo," said Athena, momentarily
forgetting bridge decorum.
     "Good.  Bring the fleet to flank speed.  Try to put as much
distance as you can between us and that basestar."
     "Yes, sir," replied Omega.
     The Battlestar Galactica leaped forward, leading its pack of
stragglers away from the looming Cylon death machine.

     "Did you see the way he handled a Viper," remarked Bojay as
he sat around a table along with the other warriors from the
recent battle.  "It was like he had just flown one the centaur
before."
     "I know," said Athena.  "I could hardly believe it myself."
     "You know," said Boomer slyly.  "He might give your father a
good fight."
     "Watch it, Boomer," said Sheba light-heartedly.  "Now your
stepping on my family honor."
     "Sorry, Sheba.  No offense," said Boomer in mock defense.
"Your family's legendary wrath is well known."
     Sheba threw back a mean look, but it quickly melted away
into a smile.  At that moment, Commander Adama entered the room
followed by Apollo.  Everyone stopped what they were doing as
they noticed the senior officer's presence.
     "At ease," said Adama as he walked over to a table in the
corner next to where Boomer was sitting.
     Bojay stood up and walked over to the Commander, giving a
nod to Apollo in greeting.  "Commander, might you allow me the
honor of buying you a drink."
     "Thank you, Captain.  I'd be delighted."
     Bojay made a notion to the nearest waiter and sat down
between Adama and Apollo.  "Sir," he continued, "I have to say
that I was impressed by your flying skills."
     "Thank you, Captain," said Adama, enjoying the attention he
was receiving, as well as the free ambrosa.  The waiter brought
the Commander his mug and Adama began to take a drink when Bojay
addressed him again.
     "It was magnificent.  I'd almost have to call it
miraculous."
     "Thank you, Captain," said Adama, emphasizing the last word
as he brought the mug to his mouth for the second time.
     "Yes, sir.  To think that after all these yahrens you would
still remember how to fly a complicated machine like a Viper.
And there have been, what, two or three redesigns since you last
flew in combat?"
     "At least that," said Apollo, trying to hide his amusement.
     "It was absolutely incredible," said Bojay.  "For a man who
hasn't been in the cockpit for ages . . ."
     "Thank you, Captain, but I think I've endured enough praise
for one evening."  Adama rose and left the room, leaving his
drink behind on the table.
     The rest of the warriors in the room watched Adama leave and
then stared at Bojay, erupting into laughter simultaneously.
     "What?" said Bojay in bewilderment.  "Was it something I
said?"



Fleeing from the Cylon tyranny the last battlestar, Galactica,
leads a ragtag fugitive fleet on a lonely quest.  A shining
planet known as Earth.
