Copyright 1994, 1995 by Adam C. Stacey
This story is written for pure pleasure and is not meant to
infringe on any preexisting copyrights that maybe violated.
Respect the author's work and do not use this for profit.
This message must be accompanied with all redistributions.
Author can be reached at Michigan State University (92-96)
email ID: stacey@student.msu.edu


               BATTLESTAR GALACTICA: ACADEMY DAYS


                        ORDEAL OF COURAGE


                 From the Adventures of Starbuck


                           Written by

                         Adam C. Stacey


                  Based on Battlestar Galactica

                           Created by

                         Glen A. Larson


     The sun blazed into glory as it rose over the Royal
Mountains of Caprica.  These mountains could be seen off in the
distance from the Caprican Academy, for yahrens the leading
military institution for producing each successive generation of
warriors to fight in the Thousand Yahren War against the Cylon
Alliance.  The Alliance was a flowery term for an empire of
machines bent on the total genocide of the human race.
     A new day emerged for millions of residents of this capital
planet, home of the Quorum of the Twelve, the ruling government
for the Twelve Colonies of the Three Suns.  The Academy had been
alive for almost a centaur already with cadets bustling around
campus en route to their next class, training to become Colonial
warriors.  One such cadet by the name of Starbuck was in the
hangar bay at this moment, preparing his ship for flight.
     It wasn't a sleek Viper, the newest weapon in the Colonial
arsenal against the Cylons, but simply an atmospheric vehicle
used for training.  His companion, Cadet Cole, was preparing his
own craft for their scheduled flight.  The two young men had been
roommates for almost six yahrens now.  They had come into the
Academy together and would soon be graduating.  Their initial
pairing in living accommodations had developed into a close
friendship over the yahrens.  Both were eagerly anticipating
their commencement so that they could serve on the frontline but
were worried about the possibility of being separated.  The two
classmates had combined their talents into a smooth fighting team
and could not imagine flying into combat without the other as
their wingmate.
     "It's almost 0700 hours, Cole.  Are you all set?" said
Starbuck to his wingmate as he finished checking out his
Skystreamer.
     "You bet.  Let's show those traffic controllers some real
flying," grinned back Cole as he climbed into his vehicle.  The
two men maneuvered their aircraft out onto the runway and awaited
clearance to depart.
     "This is Freedom 9 to launch control," reported Starbuck.
"Requesting clearance to launch for Freedoms 9 and 15."
     Starbuck waited for the response from Command.  These
takeoffs were simulations of actual launches out of a battlestar.
Starbuck belonged to the illustrious Freedom Squadron,
compromising the best pilots on campus.  The Academy had four
squadrons, each at a higher level of ability than the other.
Freedom was the best, followed by Liberty, Patriot and Flag.
Those pilots who composed Flag Squadron didn't remain there for
long.  It was said that anyone lasting more than a yahren in that
squadron might as well turn in their wings.  Often enough, either
a cadet promoted himself quickly or else he began to look at
another curriculum to take at the Academy.  In case of emergency,
these squadrons could be used to fly into combat to defend
Caprica if the frontlines were breached.  But that had not
occurred in ages.
     "Transferring launch control to Freedoms 9 and 15.  Launch
when ready."
     "Freedom 9 launching."  Starbuck ignited his engines and
blasted off the runway into the air.
     "Freedom 15 launching," said Cole soon after as he guided
his ship off the ground in pursuit of his wingmate.  The two
aircraft soared through the skys of Caprica on their training
exercise.
     "All right, Cole.  It's time we decided who the best pilot
really is.  Try to follow in my slipstream."  Starbuck broke off
communications and fired up his engines to maximum speed as he
streaked across the sky away from his comrade.
     "You wanted a race, Starbuck.  You've got one."  Cole
ignited his thrusters as well and took off after Starbuck's
craft.
     The two Skystreamers thundered across the sky in a test of
flying skill.  Starbuck looked over his shoulder and saw that
Cole was gaining on him.  He then dove his jet into a canyon to
elude his pursuer.  Cole saw Starbuck angle his craft and
followed him into the narrow canyon.
     "Starbuck, your crazy!" laughed Cole as he joined his friend
in their reckless venture.
     "Not as crazy as you are to follow me," replied Starbuck
over his helmetcom.  The two pilots flew at breakneck speed
between the winding mountain walls.  Starbuck glanced down at his
scanner and saw that he was pulling ahead of his wingman.
     "I knew you couldn't keep up."
     He focused his gaze forward just in time to see a wall of
solid rock come hurtling at him.  Without thinking, Starbuck
pulled up on his joystick and skimmed the mountain face as he
executed a perfect 90 degree ascent, narrowly avoiding certain
death.  Cole saw the mountain wall coming and avoided it at a
much easier angle as the two jets paired up in the sky after that
near disaster.
     "Starbuck?  Are you okay?" asked Cole.
     Starbuck's entire body was tense from the adrenalin that had
surged into his system.  He couldn't believe that he had almost
gotten himself killed over a stupid stunt like that.  Then he
calmed down and began to laugh over the experience, realizing
once more that his luck had held out.
     "I'm fine, Cole.  Nothing to it."
     Cole knew better that his buddy had been shaken up but
decided not to press it as the two pilots angled their craft to
resume their normal flight routine.
     "Starbuck?" interrupted Cole over the comlink.
     "What is it?"
     "Check your scanners.  Focus on low orbital scanning and
tell me what you got," instructed Cole.
     "Just a centon."  Starbuck fidgeted with his instruments to
scan the particular area Cole was requesting.  After several
microns of fine tuning, he finally got his equipment to cooperate
with him and began to receive the information he was looking for
as his computer patched into an orbiting satellite.
     "I read three ships.  Probably supply shuttles for the
Academy."
     "That's what I thought too but look at their approach.  They
are all in perfect delta formation.  Not like a supply run at
all."
     "I see what you mean," said Starbuck not convinced yet that
there was anything peculiar to report to Command.  Cole was
always looking for things to go wrong and he wondered if his
friend was exaggerating.  But the best way to deal with it was to
satisfy his curiosity.
     "They're entering the upper atmosphere right now.  Let's
take a look while we're up here," said Cole.
     "Fine by me."
     The two men flew their craft upward to intercept the three
ships that were descending towards the Academy.
     "We're in range now.  I'm activating my computer to read
their registry," said Starbuck.  The information began scrolling
across his screen, but didn't make sense.
     "Cole, they're sending recognition codes from a frontier
post in the outer territories.  What's a supply shuttle doing
from the frontline?"
     "Starbuck, I have a bad feeling about this," said Cole.
     "I'm beginning to agree with you.  Have you tried to contact
them?"
     "Twice, no answer."
     "Hang on, we'll be in visual contact in twelve microns.
Close formation and charge up your weapons systems."  The two men
brought their arsenals alive and continued on their intercept
course with the mysterious supply shuttles.
     The three ships became more identifiable as they moved in
closer.  The blobs slowly formed into oblong shapes.  These
shapes began to take on form themselves as the pilots could see a
cockpit and two wings merging from the bodyshell of the craft.
After another few microns there was no doubt as to the identity
of the intruders.
     "Cylons," exclaimed Starbuck.
     "Three Raiders closing in on the Academy," acknowledged
Cole.  "I'm contacting Central Command."
     "No use, they're jamming our transmissions," reported
Starbuck.
     "Then what do we do?"
     "What we've been trained to do," said Starbuck solemnly.
     "Starbuck that's crazy!  These old flyers are no match for
Raiders!"
     "Check your scanners, Cole.  Those Raiders are loaded with
solenite and are on a suicide run.  They're aiming to take out
the next generation of our warriors.  We have to stop them, or no
one else will."
     "I'm signalling the nearest battlestar.  With any luck
they'll be here in time."
     "In time to clean up the mess.  I'm going in, Cole."
Starbuck steered his craft towards the three enemy ships as they
descended on the unsuspecting Colonial Academy.
     "Starbuck!" shouted Cole in dismay.  "Felgercarb."  Cole
followed his wingmate in as the two cadets prepared to attack
their mortal foe.

     The three Cylon fighters proceeded towards their target.
The centurion in command of this mission had detected the
presence of two atmospheric craft in the air but paid no
attention to them.  His orders were to carry their payload to the
Colonial Academy on Caprica.  He was not to deviate from his
mission until his task had been completed, which, concerning the
nature of the cargo his ship was carrying, was a moot point.

     Starbuck piloted his Skystreamer in a hard dive following
the Cylon ships down as he lined them up in his attack grid.  The
micron he was in range he depressed his trigger and streams of
laser fire descended onto the enemy.  His ship's weapons were not
as powerful as a Viper but they were efficient enough to inflict
heavy damage if the pilot was skilled enough.  The trailing
Raider on the right caught his fire on the rear section.  After
several microns of constant bombardment, the Raider's engine
exploded and the Cylon ship fell to its doom becoming the first
Cylon in many yahrens to touch the surface of Caprica.
     The two ships split up and Cole took off after the one on
the left while Starbuck pursued the leader.  Cole followed his
prey downward as the ground came rushing up at him.  The Cylon
Raider was heading straight for the dormitory and Cole knew he
had to stop it before it could kill his friends.  Waiting until
he was sure he had a fix, Cole activated his missile launchers
and sent two payloads of explosives into the Cylon Raider.  The
impact caused the Cylon ship to veer off course as Cole pursued
it to insure that it was out of harm's way.  He activated his
lasers and shot thousands of ergons of energy into the enemy
craft until it exploded, detonated by the volatile explosives it
was carrying.

     Starbuck continued to follow his target down to the ground.
The Cylon pilots were hardened veterans and the young cadet was
unsure of whether he was going to intercept the enemy before it
could reach the Academy.
     He fired his lasers at the ship but only caused minimal
damage to the craft.  Starbuck was reluctant to use his missiles
for fear of hitting a building the way the Cylon was
outmaneuvering him.  Another few microns and he would fail to
avert the terrible destruction that was about to be inflicted.
Knowing he had only one more chance, he carefully targeted the
enemy and fired a maximum blast of laserpower at the Cylon,
hoping to ignite the solenite it was carrying.  The Cylon
commander, in an attempt to insure success in case his ship
should be destroyed, released its payload over the Academy.
Before Starbuck could depress the trigger he saw what the Cylon
was doing and switched his aim to intercept the deadly explosive.
His shot was true to the mark and the solenite exploded in a
tremendous fireball.  Starbuck pulled up at the last micron and
caught the explosion on the under side of his aircraft.
     After running a quick check, he discovered that the damage
was only superficial and looked around for the Cylon fighter.
What he saw chilled him to the bone.  The fighter he failed to
destroy was bearing down on Cole's ship who was just finishing
off the Raider he was pursuing.  Starbuck steered his craft over
to aid his friend, pushing his engines past their safety limits.
After several microns, he saw that he wasn't going to reach his
friend in time and activated his communicator to warn him.
     "Cole!"
     "Hey, Starbuck.  Mark one Cylon Raider down.  Not bad for a
first kill!"
     His first kill would be his last as the lead Cylon ship
fired on Cole's defenseless aircraft and destroyed it in a single
volley.
     "NOOOOO!" screamed Starbuck.
     Starbuck stared out at the space that had been formerly
occupied by his best friend but was now a cluster of metallic
fragments falling to the ground.  Oblivious to the danger around
him, his thoughts drifted in remembrance of all the times he had
shared with Cole.  Their first day at the Academy when they had
been assigned as roommates.  All the pranks they had pulled on
their archrivals.  Their exploits in Freedom Squadron as the best
wingmen in the history of the Academy.
     His placid contemplation quickly turned into a fiery rage as
he began to think about all the times they would not have now
because of a machine.  Starbuck's blood boiled in outrage and he
screamed once more as he descended on the Cylon Raider like an
avenging angel.  He would not let that ship escape him twice.
     The Raider was far off course after destroying the human
aircraft and the centurion commanding knew that he would not be
able to complete his mission.  Concluding that there was no
escape, he decided to inflict as much damage as he could before
he was shot down.  The Cylon fighter soared across the sky and
began its descent towards a primary instruction center.  It was
rest period at that time and all the children were playing
outside.  Wanting to destroy as many humans as possible, the
centurion guided his ship towards the playground.
     Starbuck took one look down and knew what the Cylon was
intending to do.  Sacrificing all safety systems, Starbuck flew
his ship straight at the Raider to avoid the impending disaster.
The Cylon gunner fired his lasers but they were inoperable,
jammed from the wreckage it had passed through after destroying
the human fighter.  The centurion in command ordered the ship
down on a suicide run in order to accomplish its task.
     Starbuck saw that the Cylon wasn't firing and concluded that
it was going to crash.  From his vantage point he couldn't get
off a clean shot without hitting the children.  Realizing he had
only one option left, Starbuck guided his craft directly towards
the Cylon Raider as his ship closed the gap.
     Starbuck knew that there was little chance he could survive
but he wasn't thinking about life after witnessing his friend
blown away.  He urged even more speed out of his overstressed
engines and aimed his ship like a missile right at the underbelly
of the Raider in the hopes of diverting it off its lethal course.
From the angle he was flying he would not be able to eject to
safety and could only hope that his ship was strong enough to
take the impact.
     Starbuck silently counted down the seconds and closed his
eyes at the moment of impact.  His Skystreamer smashed into the
underside of the Raider sending the two ships careening off away
from each other.  The Raider was thrown metrons off course and
crashed in a field.  Starbuck's ship was badly damaged.  The nose
had been crumpled up towards the cockpit and his right wing had
sheared off from the impact.  The transparent cover of the
cockpit had been cracked but still held together.  The ground
rushed up at the young Caprican pilot and he managed to move his
right hand over the ejection button before losing consciousness.
Starbuck was thrown clear of the aircraft millicentons before it
crashed into a hillside, exploding in a dazzling pyrotechnic
display.
     Without much altitude to work with, the parachute barely
slowed the limp human form it was carrying as it deposited its
cargo roughly to the ground.  Starbuck hit the ground with
tremendous speed and rolled several times before slowly coming to
a stop.  Unconscious the whole time, he had no chance to break
his fall and was spread out over the ground in agony, hurting
everywhere without relief.

     Starbuck slowly opened his eyes as he awoke in a medical
unit back at the Academy.  He tried to get up but was stopped by
the numerous appendages and bindings that were attached to him to
heal his broken body.
     "Ohhhhh. . ." he moaned as he awoke from his ordeal.  A
nurse hurriedly came to his side after noticing the change in his
condition.  "What. . . what happened," he mumbled through the
face mask he was wearing.
     "Relax, you're safe now.  You should be lucky to be alive.
We weren't sure if you were going to make it."
     "Where am I?" questioned the stunned cadet.
     "You are in the Academy Medical Training Center.  You were
injured when your aircraft crashed into a hillside."
     Things started to come back to him as he focused on her
words.    "What about. . . the children," he asked.
     "Oh, you mean the instructional center.  They're fine.  When
you hit that Cylon Raider he was thrown off course and crashed a
safe distance away from everyone.  Your a hero, Cadet," smiled
the med tech.
     "Not good enough though.  What happened to Cole," said
Starbuck, hoping to hear some news besides the obvious.
     "Who's Cole?"
     "My wingman."
     "I'm sorry," said the med tech as she tried to break the
news to him.  "The other Skystreamer was destroyed.  There were
no survivors."
     Pain swept over Starbuck in waves as he relived his last
conscious moments, witnessing his friend's death in his mind
again.
     "You need your rest, but there is someone to see you," said
the med tech as she went back to get the individual in question.
Centons later, an older gray haired man stepped through the
doorway to the intensive care unit to see the young hero.
     "Good morning, Cadet Starbuck.  It is a pleasure to see you
awake again."
     "Commandant Thor," said Starbuck in recognition as he gazed
at the elderly man before him.
     "I left orders that I should be notified as soon as you
regained consciousness.  I wanted to express my deep appreciation
for your heroism and sacrifice.  If it wasn't for you, many
innocent lives would have been lost."
     "Thank you, sir.  But I wish Cole was here.  He deserves the
credit as much as I do," said Starbuck in a husky voice.
     "I have already made arrangements to honor Cadet Cole.  But
you also deserve your due reward."  The commandant of the Academy
reached into his pocket and produced a solid black case that he
slowly opened up.
     "Cadet Starbuck, on behalf of the Quorum of the Twelve, it
is my privilege to award you with the Colonial Medal of Honor for
your outstanding heroism and self-sacrifice to save countless
civilians from a Cylon attack."
     Starbuck was speechless for the first time in his life.  The
Medal of Honor!  It was an award that was rarely given out.  Only
the Star of Kobol was honored higher and given out more
infrequently.
     "Thank you, sir," said Starbuck after an indefinite period
of time.
     "You can thank me by hanging on to that medal for a long
time, son.  I don't want the youngest officer ever to receive the
Colonial Medal of Honor getting shot down on his first mission."
     After a few microns, Starbuck caught something that was said
by the commandant.  "Officer, sir?"
     "After you have finished rehabilitation and are formerly
granted your certification for completing the Academy, you will
be promoted to Lieutenant second class.  From there you will
immediately be transferred to the Battlestar Galactica and serve
in their infamous Blue Squadron.  Congratulations, Lieutenant.
Not many cadets get to serve on a battlestar on their first tour
of duty."
     The commandant turned on his heels and departed as Starbuck
laid in bed in shock over what he had heard in the last few
centons.  The Battlestar Galactica!  It was almost too good to be
true.  All his life he had wanted to serve in the military aboard
a Colonial battlestar and now it was coming true.  Starbuck sank
back into his cushions and fell into a deep sleep.  He was even
more eager than before to get well and leave the rejuvenation
center.  He had a few hundred Cylons to kill, for an old friend.
