              This story is dedicated to my brother

                     Matthew  James  Stacey

                     who passed away after a
                 courageous battle with leukemia


                 April 18, 1976  -  May 22, 1994

























Copyright 1994, 1995 by Adam C. Stacey
This story is written for pure pleasure and is not intended to
infringe on any preexisting copyrights that may be violated.
Respect the author's work and do not use this to seek profit.
This message must be accompanied with all redistributions.
The author can be reached at Michigan State University (92-96)
Email ID: stacey@pilot.msu.edu
_______________________________________________________________

There are those who believe that life here began out there, far
across the universe, with tribes of humans who may have been the
forefathers of the Egyptians, or the Toltecs, or the Mayans.
That they may have been the architects of the great pyramids, or
the lost civilizations of Lemuria or Atlantis.

Some believe that there may yet be brothers of man who even now
fight to survive, somewhere beyond the heavens. . .



                      BATTLESTAR GALACTICA

                            starring

                          Richard Hatch
                          Dirk Benedict
                              and
                      Lorne Greene as Adama

                       RITE OF LEADERSHIP

                          also starring
                       Herb Jefferson, Jr.
                          John Colicos
                          Maren Jensen
                          Noah Hathaway
                         Laurette Spang
                           Tony Swartz
                          Anne Lockhart

                           Written by

                         Adam C. Stacey


                  Based on Battlestar Galactica

                           Created by

                         Glen A. Larson





From the Adama Journals:

     It has been a short time since our last and most perilous
encounter to date with the Cylon Empire.  The last vessels are
now on their way back to rejoin our fleet and continue our quest
for Earth.  But even as we resume our normal routine, a great
stirring in the Council of the Twelve threatens our very
existence.  Our mission has been brought up into question and I
fear that the Council will once again try to end our voyage and
settle down on the next habitable world.  I can only pray that
wisdom and good sense will prevail and we will avoid yet another
danger, this time from within.


     Captain Apollo activated his thrusters and pursued the
renegade Colonial ship as it tried to escape the fleet.
     "This is Colonel Apollo of the Battlestar Galactica.  I
order you to power down your engines and return to the fleet."
     ". . . this is Nadell.  You can tell Commander Adama that
we're leaving and you can't make us return to our prison.  We are
free men!  And if we wish to die free then that is our choice."
     Apollo thumbed his trigger and fired several shots across in
the path of the renegade ship.  This was the second vessel in the
last centaur that had attempted to break free of the convoy the
Colonial warriors were escorting back to the Galactica.  After
Apollo had left New Caprica to lead a force to retake the
Galactica, he had split up the human fleet into several groups.
He had assigned each a different rendezvous point where he would
contact them and escort them back to the Galactica after the
battle.  Unfortunately, that plan had not gone as smoothly as he
had anticipated.  Several ships had decided to go it alone and
make it to the nearest habitable planet.
     Although he had orders to take them back with whatever force
necessary, he couldn't bring himself to blame thos poor souls
trying desperately to escape.  They had been caged like animals,
living off meager rations in conditions not fit for a secton's
journey, let alone several yahrens.  After seeing the warm colors
of a habitable planet below, many had decided to forsake the
protection of the Galactica and take their chances on solid
ground again.
     Commander Adama had been adamant since the beginning of
their journey that he would keep the human race together, no
matter the cost.  Several times he had refused to allow those who
desired to leave to settle on some planet they had passed.  But
New Caprica had been an exception.  After touring the ships of
the fleet and actually seeing the conditions that their people
were living in, he had decided to let the older Colonists to
leave and settle on the surface.  They were not going to last
much longer and he thought it would be best if they lived out the
rest of their lives on a world that reminded them of home.
     But his generosity had nearly started a revolution.  Now,
hundreds of people were seizing control of their ships and trying
desperately to return to firm soil beneath their feet.  Adama had
changed after his experiences aboard the Cylon basestar.  He was
no longer as lenient and forgiving as he had been before.  After
hearing Apollo's first report of defiance on the part of some of
the Colonists, he had ordered him to use whatever means necessary
to secure the safe return of every last vessel.  Now, Apollo was
pushing those orders to the limit as he continued to fire in the
vicinity of the freighter, hoping to coax the crew into changing
course.
     "Apollo to Freighter Regalia.  This is your last warning.
If you do not alter your course then I will be forced to cripple
your ship."  Apollo paused for a heartbeat before he continued.
"I suggest you maintain a straight course or I might blow a hole
in your hull and expose you all to vacuum."
     There was no response on the other end.  Apollo waited as
long as he could and then decided to act on his threat.  He lined
up the freighter's engines and prepared to fire, hoping not to
inflict any permanent damage.  The communication line suddenly
opened back up again and a new voice spoke.
     "Colonial Viper, this is Reychek.  We have detained Nadell
and are powering down our engines.  Please transmit a heading
back to the Galactica."
     "Acknowledged, Regalia.  Transmitting coordinates.  Follow
me closely and don't attempt to deviate from your course."
     "Understood, Colonel.  Regalia out."
     Apollo watched the freighter slowly change course and then
moved out in front, preparing to lead it home.  He hoped that the
other warriors were having an easier time than he was.  If they
had arrived at this particular cluster of ships a centaur later,
they may have been faced with mass mutiny rather than a few
fanatics who could be controlled.

     The Battlestar Galactica and her ragtag fugitive fleet moved
silently through the empty reaches of space in their constant
flight from the forces of the Cylon Alliance.  The ship had new
scars from her last battle with the Cylons and had narrowly
escaped destruction.  But once again the human desire to survive
had overcome the genocidal agenda of the more numerous Cylons.
     Inside the Council Chambers, the Council of the Twelve was
in session, holding a much heated debate.  Since the surrender of
the Galactica, the Council of the Twelve, the ruling body for the
last of the human race, was becoming more assertive in its
control over the people of the fleet.  Their power had been
curbed lately due to their ineptitude to lead the fleet.  Ever
since the entire Council had been taken prisoner by Baltar when
he had engineered an escape from the prison barge with the help
of the Eastern Alliance, their clout among the populace had been
steadily declining.  But after the temporary capture of the
Galactica, many individuals were beginning to renew the debate
over Adama's leadership and whether they would be better off
taking their chances on some habitable planet rather than
continue their trek across the stars.
     "Commander Adama, I must insist that you inform us when you
plan to reach Earth," asked the elderly councillor once again.
     "Sire Anton, I cannot tell you that which I do not know.
The Galactica is proceeding on the course given to us by the
mysterious ship of lights."
     "A course we have only your word to guarantee its
authenticity," corrected a second councillor.  "Given to us by an
alien force that has engaged us in a provocative manner."
     "May I remind the Council that the beings aboard the ship of
lights caused no damage to this battlestar and that all of our
warriors were returned to us unharmed.  As for the question of my
word, several witnesses were present when those three warriors
divulged the information they had been given."
     "Friends and family I'm sure," said another councillor in
rebuke.
     "Commander," spoke the young Councillor Gamesh.  "I for one
do not doubt your word.  There is a high probability that our
course is the correct one and will eventually lead us to Earth.
But do you not see that there is also a distinct probability that
we will never reach our destination?  We barely escaped this last
attack by the Cylons and, for a brief period of time, lost
command of our only means of defense!  Due to recent events, I
insist that we put down at the nearest habitable planet and free
our people from the confines of their cells."
     Words of agreement sounded through the ranks of the Council,
save for one.
     "Councillor Gamesh," said Adama.  "You are new to our
prestigious body so maybe you do not recall the incident at
Carillon where this Council proposed the same plan and left us
vulnerable to a Cylon attack."
     "I am well aware of my colleagues' mistakes," said Gamesh,
stinging his opponents where they were defenseless.  "But I
assure you this is the best possible action we could take to
ensure the survival of our people."
     "I disagree, we must continue onward in the hopes of
avoiding further Cylon engagements.  To stand our ground only
gives our enemies the advantage they need to defeat us."
     "Adama!  Your madness will destroy us all!"
     The members sitting down stared at the two men as they
glared at each other.  Gamesh settled down and took his seat once
more, noticing the stares directed at him.
     "I apologize for my outburst.  This issue moves me at the
deepest levels of my being."  He took another moment to collect
himself and decided to pursue a new strategy.  "I propose that we
let our people decide this most important issue since it affects
their very lives.  I call for a referendum of the Council."
     The other councilors in the room sat frozen in shock.  A
referendum had not been called since before they had left the
homeworlds.  A referendum not only decided a major issue but also
the careers of two opposing politicians.  One councillor must
support each side and the loser would be forced to resign their
seat forever.
     "As the most senior member of this Council I must ask if you
accept Councillor Gamesh's challenge, sir," said Sire Anton.
     "I do," replied Adama.
     "Very well.  A referendum of the Council must be held within
one secton."
     The Council of the Twelve broke up in eerie silence as the
two rivals departed in separate directions to prepare their
strategies.

     In the launch bay of the Galactica, Colonel Apollo briefed
two officers before they departed on their long range patrol.
One more to be added to the long list of missions his new rank
prevented him from volunteering for.
     "Go out as far as you can and then return to the fleet.
Your computers already have the prearranged coordinates for the
rendezvous.  Just sit back and enjoy the sleep," said Apollo.
     "Apollo?  Are you sure you couldn't find anyone else for
this mission?  After all, Boomer and I have spent the better part
of a secton rounding up the rest of the fleet," said Starbuck.
     "I know you must be tired and I commend you and Boomer on an
excellent job but this mission is important.  We don't know if
we're clear of that Cylon pursuit force or not and I want my two
best warriors to determine our security."
     Starbuck reluctantly nodded his head in agreement.  He
didn't want to put anymore pressure on Apollo than he had to.  He
knew his friend would do anything he could to get on this mission
but his new rank prevented him from flying in hazardous duty.
     "Besides," continued Apollo.  "I might be doing you a favor.
The Council is challenging my father again.  We might not be
under martial law when you return.  In fact, you may just be
missing a full fledged civil war."
     "It's that bad?" questioned Starbuck, realizing the
seriousness in his friend's voice.
     "It could mean the end of our journey and possibly the end
of us all," replied Apollo.
     "Don't worry, Apollo," said Boomer as he put his helmet on.
"We'll be back in half a secton."
     "I'm counting on you, Boomer."
     Boomer gave Apollo the thumbs up sign as his cockpit sealed
itself to the body of his Viper.
     "Bye," said Starbuck as his cockpit came down as well
forcing Apollo out of the way.
     The two pilots activated the steam catapults and their
Vipers raced down the launch tubes and out into space.

     Commander Adama strode onto the bridge in distraction,
nearly walking right through a passing crewman.  After
apologizing, he approached the command pedestal and ascended to
the top where his son was currently watching over the bridge.
     "The fleet's been reassembled, Commander," reported Apollo.
"All ships accounted for.  We've transported the mutineers to the
prison barge to await their trial."
     "Fine, Apollo," dismissed Adama, busy thinking about
something else.
     "We encountered more resistance than I expected.  It seems
that a large segment of our people are determined to leave the
fleet at any cost.  I even had to fire across the bow of a
freighter to get them to turn back."  Adama still continued to
gaze off in the distance as Apollo reported on a critical matter.
"Have you listened to anything I've said?"
     "What?" said Adama disoriented.  "Yes, of course, the
mutineers.  Inform Sire Solon to prosecute them to the fullest
extent of the law.  They will have to be dealt with harshly as an
example to the rest of the population."
     "Don't you think that's a little harsh?"
     "I gave them a breath of freedom and what did they do in
return?  They sought to abandon everything we've struggled for.
I won't make that mistake twice."
     "All they wanted to do was to walk on grass again and raise
their children the way they lived."
     "Are you inclined to agree with them?" accused Adama in a
sudden rage of temper.
     "No, of course not.  You know where my loyalty is,"
responded Apollo, puzzled over his father's mood.
     "Father?  Is there something wrong?"
     "Yes, Apollo.  The Council is more concerned about the
threat of the Cylons than I thought.  Our recent battle must have
shaken them badly.  Lord knows it did me."
     "What did they do?" asked Apollo almost not wanting to know
the answer.
     "Councillor Gamesh has called for a referendum on the issue
of settling down on the next habitable world we come to."
     "They can't do this!  Aren't we under martial law?"
     "Right now the Council can do anything they wish," said
Adama in defeat.  "I'm not a dictator, Apollo, nor do I wish to
be.  When we enlisted in the service we took an oath to uphold
the civilian government, no matter how inept they might be."
     "What will you do?" asked Apollo after a long silence.
     "I will participate in the referendum and attempt to
persuade the people to reject Gamesh's proposal."
     "What if they vote to leave?"
     "Then I will do everything in my power to prevent that
catastrophe from happening."  Adama paused and gazed into his
son's eyes to make it clear to him how serious he regarded this
matter.
     "Apollo, I made a promise never to surrender the Galactica.
Circumstances prevented me from keeping that vow.  But I also
pledged myself that I would never place the human race in danger
of extinction.  No matter what the cost, I will not allow those
people to leave this fleet."
     Apollo saw something in his father's eyes that he had never
seen before.  A grim determination to accomplish something no
matter what stood in his way.  He had never seen his father this
obsessed before.  Perhaps losing the Galactica had hit him harder
than he thought coupled with his intense torture aboard the Cylon
flagship.  Adama turned abruptly and left the bridge, leaving
Apollo alone to dwell in his newly disturbed thoughts.

     Sheba sat alone in the corner of the lounge on the Rising
Star.  After their recent battle with the Cylons she, along with
half of the Viper pilots on the Galactica, had been given
extended R and R.  She took the first available shuttle to the
luxury liner to enjoy some time off.  The problem was she didn't
feel like doing anything.  Once aboard, she walked past the
gambling casinos and entertainment centers and found a dark,
secluded booth from which to bury herself in her thoughts.
     She knew she had been accepted into the Galactica caste of
warriors and even obtained a special place in the Commander's
heart but she still didn't feel like she belonged.  The loss of
her father had hit her very deeply and she hadn't realized until
now how much her happiness depended on him.  It was as if a great
void had opened up inside of her and all meaning in her life had
been lost.  Apollo had helped her over that initial emptiness and
Sheba had found a joy she didn't know could exist in his company.
But Apollo suffered from a different problem.  Whereas Sheba
sought out joy in her life, Apollo shunned it.  He was still
struck with grief over the loss of his wife Serina and felt
guilty anytime he allowed himself to feel happiness.
     She had come to the conclusion that her future would not
include Apollo.  Her sympathy had turned to disgust and she would
let him suffer alone.  Now she sat back in her corner and sipped
her ambrosa, dreaming of her life back on the Pegasus.
     "May I join you."
     Sheba nearly dropped her mug on the table before she looked
up at who had startled her from her thoughts.  What she saw was
the visage of a young handsome man clothed in the casual attire
of the elite class.
     "I'm sorry, I didn't mean to startle you.  I was curious as
to why such a lovely woman like yourself was sitting alone in
this merry place."
     His words would have brought a laugh out of her on most days
from his obvious intentions, but today she didn't seem to care as
she was mesmerized by his shining green eyes.
     "If you don't want me to intrude I'll leave you as you
were."
     Sheba suddenly realized that she hadn't said anything and
quickly blurted something out to prevent him from leaving.
     "No, not at all.  Won't you please sit down."
     "Thank you," said the stranger as he slid into the booth
opposite her across the table.  A waitress arrived at that moment
and he signalled her for a mug of ambrosa.
     "Well, do you care to talk about it," he said as he sipped
his drink.
     "I don't understand," replied Sheba in confusion.
     "I mean do you want to talk about whatever is bothering you.
Surely there must be something weighing heavily on your mind or
else you wouldn't be so secluded in this place of entertainment."
     Sheba laughed at his choice of words, becoming enthralled
with the young man as he continued this largely one-sided
conversation.
     "I suppose your right," said Sheba lightheartedly.  "I guess
I'm just a little tired of everything lately."
     "I can understand.  Being a Colonial warrior with the
responsibility of defending the last vestiges of humanity cannot
be an easy task," sympathized her companion.
     "How did you. . . oh the uniform," realized Sheba before she
could complete her sentence.
     "Yes, I see you are a member of Blue Squadron.  Captain
Apollo's squadron I believe. . ."  He stopped as he noticed the
expression on her face at the mention of Apollo's name and logged
it for further reference.  ". . .the finest fighting unit in the
fleet."
     "Not since he was promoted to colonel.  He doesn't see much
Viper action anymore," replied Sheba as she buried the mixed
feelings that were overwhelming her at the mention of her former
lover.  "I'm sorry, I'm being an awful host.  Here you are trying
to make me feel better and I don't even know your name."
     "Gamesh, and yours," said the young councillor.
     "Sheba.  Your not the same Gamesh who is a member of the
Council of the Twelve?" pried Sheba.
     "The one and the same I'm afraid," chuckled the young sire.
"How I do long for the times when I was a simple passenger on
this expedition and not a representative of our people.  You know
Sheba, you and I are much alike.  We are both burdened by our
responsibilities and have great difficulty in alleviating our
pain."  Gamesh could see the smile forming on her face and pushed
on.
     "Would you care to join me in the lounge.  I understand
there is a Pisceran water master performing right now."
     "How could I turn down such a charming offer."
     Sheba stood up and walked out with Gamesh whose hand gently
caressed her back.

     "Did you see Sheba last night on the Rising Star," said
Giles to Greenbean as they walked into the bunk room.
     "I know, I didn't see those two separate all night," replied
Greenbean.
     "Yeah, who was that guy.  I could have sworn I've seen him
somewhere. . ."
     "I think he's on the Council," said Greenbean.
     "Councillor. . .Gamesh, that's right."
     "Well whoever he was, those two were making quite a scene
last night."
     "Hey, its almost 1500 hours, we're going to be late for our
patrol," said Giles.
     "Let's get moving."
     The two warriors hurriedly grabbed their gear and raced out
to the launch bay as Colonel Apollo stepped out from around the
corner where he was secretly listening to the conversation.  With
a downcast expression, he tossed his clipboard over on to a table
and walked out of the crew quarters.

     Sheba and Dietra walked down the passageway together
discussing the finer aspects of being a Colonial warrior.  Dietra
had come a long way since she had joined the ranks of Viper
pilots.  She had only been a shuttle pilot in the beginning,
ferrying cargo from one battered vessel to another.  It was not a
glamorous job but she was happy to help out in her own small way.
She had dreamed of attending the Academy on Caprica and becoming
a Colonial warrior but talks of an armistice and the subsequent
holocaust had destroyed those ambitions.
     But fate intervened when the bulk of the Galactica's
warriors fell ill to an alien virus that Boomer had contracted
and spread after skipping decontamination.  Because of that,
Commander Adama had to recruit every pilot available to replace
the pilots he had lost.  Dietra had been one of the first
selected and had received high marks from her instructors,
Captain Apollo and Lieutenant Starbuck.  On her first mission,
she had personally shot down a trio of Cylon Raiders and lead her
squadron to victory.  At the battle over the planet Kobol she had
again demonstrated her combat skills and had been allowed to
remain a warrior when the pilots recovered from their illness.
Now she was an ensign and was ready to begin the rigorous
challenge of becoming a lieutenant.
     "I don't know, Sheba," said Dietra.  "There are a lot of
good pilots I'm competing with.  And besides, they attended the
Caprican Academy."
     "Dietra, I know half a dozen lieutenants that you could fly
circles around.  Don't sell yourself short.  And besides," said
Sheba.  "How many of them can claim to be almost entirely self-
taught, without the benefit of an Academy education."
     "I suppose your right.  I just wonder if I'm rushing myself
to get this promotion."
     "Dietra, you've been an ensign for several yahrens.  You're
due for a promotion."
     At that moment, the two rounded a corner and nearly walked
right into Sire Gamesh who was approaching from the other
direction.
     "Councillor Gamesh," started Sheba, blushing at the sight of
the young aristocrat.
     Dietra took one look at Sheba and knew that she should be
leaving.  "I'll see you later, Sheba," said Dietra and quickly
left the two of them alone.
     "Please, Sheba.  I feel as if we've known each other for a
long time.  Call me Gamesh."
     "Gamesh, I feel the same way."
     "I didn't get a chance to tell you how much I enjoyed being
in your company last night."
     "Thank you.  I had a good time too."
     "Well, now that we have agreed on that I was wondering if
you would join me for dinner."
     "That sounds fine.  Do you want to try the Rising Star
again?"
     "I was thinking of something a little more intimate, say my
quarters after your duty shift?"
     Sheba thought about that for a centon, not quite sure if
that was a good idea.  She decided she didn't have anything
better to do and a night with a charming councillor wasn't such a
bad idea.
     "Fine, I'll join you when I get off duty."
     "I'm looking forward to it."  With that, Gamesh made a
dramatic exit and walked back promptly from the direction he had
come from, leaving Sheba alone to her mixed feelings.

     "Starbuck. . .Starbuck!  Heh, Starbuck!" said Boomer.
     "What?" replied the groggy pilot.
     "Would you wake out of hibernation for a centon and check
your forward scanner."
     "Forward scanner, got it," said Starbuck as he struggled to
wake up.  The image began to form on his monitor and information
scrolled across the screen.
     "I read a planet, capable of supporting life," said
Starbuck.  "You woke me up for that!"
     "Check your mineral scan, bucko," replied Boomer using his
affectionate nickname for his friend.
     Starbuck grumbled something and retuned his instruments.
After a few microns the computer displayed the information and
Starbuck read through it until he came to the name at the bottom
of the screen.
     "Zodiacon?  I've never heard of that mineral."
     "There's no reason you should.  I read about it in Commander
Adama's debriefings.  It is a naturally occurring substance that
doesn't occur on any of the Colonies.  In fact it only exists on
one planet we've discovered."
     "What's that got to do with our mission?"
     "The planet it is native to is Kobol," said Boomer filling
in the puzzle.
     "Boomer, we'd better take a look at this.  This could be a
marker left behind by the Thirteenth Tribe," said Starbuck.
     "Exactly what I was thinking," said Boomer.
     The two Vipers rolled off to their right on a new heading
down to the mysterious planet they had scanned.

     Apollo walked somberly down the corridor to his quarters.
He opened the door only to be tackled by a mass of fur and metal.
The droid daggit barked at him in excitement.
     "Muffy!" said Boxey as he came into the room.  The daggit
barked in reply to the sound of its master's voice.  "Get off
him."  The daggit reluctantly obeyed and crawled off Apollo as he
slowly got to his feet.
     "Sorry, Dad," said Boxey.  "Muffit's just excited to see you
that's all."
     "That's okay, Boxey," replied Apollo as he sat down in the
nearest chair, recovering from his attack.
     "Is there something wrong?"  asked the boy, detecting the
unusual somber mood in his adopted father who cared for him after
his mother died on the planet Kobol yahrens ago.
     "Boxey, do you miss your mother?"
     Startled, Boxey looked downward as painful thoughts flooded
back into him.
     "Sometimes, especially at night.  Mom used to sing to me
before I went to sleep."
     "Do you ever wish that I would meet someone else so you
could have someone to take care of you and read you stories and
do the things your mother used to do," said Apollo delicately.
     "I don't know.  I guess.  I've still got you, dad."
     "You bet, Boxey and you'll always have me.  I don't want you
to worry about not having me around."
     "I know you have to go up in your Viper and shoot down
Cylons.  I just worry about you," said Boxey as tears formed in
his eyes.
     "Nothing's going to happen to me.  Besides, you see this
pin," the boy nodded.  "Well that means that I'm a colonel now
and I don't go out in a Viper as much as I used to."  Apollo hung
on that last statement as he thought about the life he used to
lead and now couldn't with his new rank.  New resentment built up
inside him over the responsibilities he was bearing now.
     "Dad, are you thinking about getting sealed?"
     "No, Boxey.  I was just wondering what you would think if I
ever found someone special again."
     "It's okay.  I wouldn't mind," said Boxey.
     "Thank you, Boxey.  You don't know how much that means to
me," said Apollo as he embraced his son one more time.

     "How did it go," asked Cassiopeia.
     "We had dinner together last night," replied Sheba.
     "And?" pressed Athena.
     "That's all.  It was a lovely evening.  He is a very
charming host."
     "So how do you feel about him," asked Cassie while she
sipped her ambrosa.  The three of them were enjoying some time
off their regular shifts in the officer's lounge of the
Galactica.
     "I'm really not sure," admitted Sheba.  "I know that he
cares for me and is very attentive to what I feel."
     "No offense, Sheba," said Athena.  "But you just described a
daggit."
     Cassiopeia and Athena laughed at that remark while Sheba was
lost in thought.  She couldn't understand why there was something
blocking her relationship.  Gamesh cared for her very deeply and
was a very thoughtful man.  But she was reminded of another who
she cared about even more, a man who would probably never feel
the same for her.
     "I'll tell you more tomorrow, after I have dinner again
tonight with Gamesh."
     "Three nights in a row," said Cassiopeia in concern.
"Aren't you rushing into this a little."
     Something broke inside of Sheba at that last remark and
whatever concerns she had disappeared right then.
     "Is it so wrong to entertain a man now and again?  It's not
like you two have any problems finding companionship around
here."  With that remark, she stormed out leaving her two friends
speechless in their booth.

     "This meeting of the Council of the Twelve has come to
order," began Councillor Anton.  "Commander Adama, I must ask you
again, do you accept Councillor Gamesh's challenge to debate in a
referendum of the populace."
     "I do," said Adama.
     "Councillor Gamesh, do you wish to withdraw your challenge."
     "No, Councillor," said Gamesh as he stared at his rival
across the table.
     "Then since you both have confirmed your willingness to
partake in this event I declare that tomorrow you will both
debate in the Great Hall and that your remarks shall be
transmitted across the fleet so that our people may vote on this
decision.  This meeting of the Council of the Twelve comes to a
close."
     Adama stood up to leave but Councillor Gamesh was already
making his way around the table to speak to him.
     "Commander Adama, I wish you well tomorrow.  May the
people's ears be open to both our words."
     "Oh, I hope they are listening, Councillor.  Because
tomorrow they will choose between life or death.  And I only pray
they will choose the path that doesn't lead to destruction."
     Adama turned and departed leaving Gamesh standing alone next
to his vacant seat.

     "Sheba," said Gamesh as he soothingly caressed her hair
while she leaned up against him in his quarters.
     "How did your meeting go with the Council?"
     "Everything is prepared.  Adama and I will debate tomorrow
in the Great Hall.  It will be his last public appearance as the
President of the Council of the Twelve," chuckled Gamesh slyly.
     "Is this really necessary," asked Sheba.
     "Why of course.  Our people cannot continue like this.  We
are the sole remaining survivors of our race.  We must secure our
existence as well as rebuild our society.  Don't you want your
children to tread upon solid ground rather than the cold decks of
the Galactica," he said as he gently pressed his lips to hers.
Sheba responded but pushed him off as he tried to go further.
     "But why do you have to do this," said Sheba slightly
annoyed.
     "Because my dear I wish to be President of the Council.  Let
Adama remain in military command.  His expertise is invaluable to
us.  But Adama is a warrior above all else, not a diplomat.  I am
most qualified to lead our people."
     "He was an elected member of the Quorum before the Cylons
destroyed our homes," said Sheba in her leader's defense.
     "Yes, but that was yahrens ago.  Times have changed.  We no
longer exist under martial law.  And after this last fiasco I
should think Adama needs all of his time to focus on defending
our people."
     "So you think we will be more defensible if we settle down
on a world," said Sheba as she pulled herself away from his arms.
     "No, but anything's better than waiting up here for the
Cylons to pick us off.  They've demonstrated that they have a
superior military advantage.  We cannot fight them amongst the
stars.  Our only chance is to settle down and entrench ourselves.
Let them come to us and then we'll be ready," said Gamesh as he
practiced his arguments.
     "Isn't that what the Council thought about Carillon," shot
back Sheba.  She had learned of that near disaster where the
Colonial Fleet had been attacked while all of its warriors were
on the surface.  If it wasn't for Adama's resourcefulness, their
people would now be destroyed or food for the Ovions.
     "Yes, but Sire Uri called for disarmament.  That's not what
I'm proposing.  I fully intend to be armed and ready for whatever
comes our way."
     "I don't know," sighed Sheba.  "It would be nice to live
planetside again and feel the ground under your feet but
Commander Adama has done so much for us.  I feel as if we are
betraying him in some manner."
     "Sheba, we're not betraying him.  We're simply acting in the
best interests of our people.  Adama is blinded by his quest for
Earth.  Now Earth may in fact exist but it won't do us any good
if we're destroyed by Cylon attack before we reach it.  This is
our only hope."  Gamesh gently drew her into his arms and leaned
her back as he kissed her.
     Sheba was still unconvinced but her feelings for Gamesh
swept her mind down a different route as she joined him in their
moment of passion.

     "Father, are you busy?" said Apollo as he entered Adama's
quarters.  He wasn't sure if this was a good time after the way
Adama had reacted earlier on the bridge.
     "No, Apollo sit down.  I was just going over my speech."
     "I'm sure you'll do fine.  There's no way the people will
turn their backs on you after all that you've done for them."
     "I wish I could be as confident as you," said Adama.  "But
never mind that, what is it you wished to speak to me about."
     "Do you feel any kind of. . .  obligation towards mother."
     Adama leaned back in his seat, not wanting to dwell on that
painful episode in his life.  He still dreamed of the day he
returned to Caprica after so many yahrens only to find his house
in flames and his wife gone from this life.  "I still feel
regrets toward our marriage.  I wish I could have been there for
her more often instead of gallivanting around the stars fighting
in a war that I thought would never end and now I wished hadn't.
Not the way it did end, anyway."
     "But do you feel as if you owe her something."
     "What do you mean, Apollo," said Adama, seeing that some of
the walls his son had built around him were starting to erode for
him to ask the question he knew awaited.
     "Ever since Serina died, I've always felt a sense of guilt
when I thought about other women."
     "Apollo, her death was not your fault.  And besides, I'm
sure Serina would have wanted you to be happy.  After all, she
left you a son to look after."
     "I suppose your right," said Apollo, already anxious to
change the subject due to this breach of his personal life.
Apollo turned to leave when Adama spoke a parting remark.
     "Apollo, we live a life where tomorrow may never come.
Remember that, son."
     Apollo listened and then departed, having reached a
decision.

     Sheba sat down in her Viper and went through her pre-flight
routine to make sure all of her onboard systems were functioning.
She had been thinking about her conversation with Gamesh earlier
and was wondering if she was doing the right thing.  Gamesh
seemed obsessed with political power and was determined to defeat
Adama at any cost.  Sheba wondered if she was betraying Adama in
some way and in the process his son.  She reached out to pick up
her helmet off the ledge when Apollo came up beside her.
     "Sheba, can we talk."
     "I'm sorry, Captain.  I'm on patrol, your orders," she said
as she slid her helmet on over her head.
     "It will just take a centon," pleaded Apollo.
     Sheba reluctantly agreed and shut down her viper's warmup
cycle.
     "I overheard that you and Councillor Gamesh have been seen
together recently.  I just wanted to know if it was true."
     "What business is it of my senior officer who I associate
with?" said Sheba.
     "It's not.  Sheba, I wanted to know."
     "Yes, we have been seeing each other recently," said Sheba
slightly bowing her head after hearing the sincerity in Apollo's
voice, starting to regret what she had done the night before.
     "Do you think we can talk about this," said Apollo.
     "Talk about what?  I don't remember having to ask you in the
past who I saw."
     "I just thought after what we've been through. . ."
     "As I recall, Apollo, it was you who decided to make things
the way they are."
     "Can't I change my mind," said Apollo becoming slightly
annoyed.
     "Yes, and I can too.  I needed you back then, but not
anymore."
     "Sheba, I want to try to work it out.  Can't we discuss
this."
     "Look, Apollo.  There's nothing to discuss.  Gamesh cares
for me and I feel the same about him.  Besides, where were you
when I needed you most."  With that, Sheba closed the cockpit and
started up her engines.  Apollo jumped clear of the Viper microns
before it roared out the launch tube.  Apollo left the launch
bay, unable to see the pilot of that fighter wipe the tears from
her eyes as she headed out away from the fleet.

     Apollo needed time to unwind and think about everything that
was happening in his life.  At times like these, he liked to
practice triad in the arena on board the Rising Star.  Triad was
something that could always take his mind off his problems.
Starbuck and himself had proven to be quite a team and had
consistently captured the title every yahren since it had been
established.
     He walked into the arena, fastening on his helmet when he
looked up to discover that he was not alone.  Practicing penalty
throws across the room was Councillor Gamesh.  Apollo approached
the green clad player, bouncing the ball in front of him.
     "I wasn't aware there was anyone else here," began Apollo.
"Do you come here often?"
     "Not as much as I'd like," replied Gamesh, returning
Apollo's stare.  "I don't get the chance much anymore with
Council business and all."
     "Yes, I understand you've become quite involved in the
Council lately."
     "Are you referring to my impending debate with your father?"
said Gamesh, prodding him on.
     "Yes, actually I am interested in that.  What makes you
think you can lead this fleet any better than my father?"
     "Because, Apollo, he is an old man.  He is too caught up in
holding on to the good old days and not spending enough time
looking towards our people's future.  You should appreciate the
younger view I can bring to the Presidency."
     "Don't place me on your side just yet, Gamesh," said Apollo,
spitting out the words in anger.  "I still don't think that we'll
be any safer planetside than out in space."
     "Come now, Apollo.  You don't really think this is about
where our people live do you?"  He could see Apollo's confusion
and decided to further enlighten the warrior.  "This is about
power, plain and simple.  Adama has it and I want it!"
     "So you are prepared to jeopardize the lives of every man,
woman and child just to further your own ambitions!"
     "Don't belittle me, Apollo.  You don't really think I care
about these people do you?  They're miserable retches who live
even more miserable lives under your father's administration.
That is except for Sheba," said Gamesh gloatingly.
     "What about Sheba," said Apollo, pretending not to be
interested.
     "Sheba, a member of your squadron whom I understand you had
a relationship with at one time.  That is what you came to talk
about isn't it?"
     "This has nothing to do with Sheba.  My concern is for the
safety of this fleet," said Apollo as he stepped closer, coming a
handsbreadth away from Gamesh's face.  "And as for any
relationship I've had with Sheba, that's between her and me.
Understand?"
     "Quite."
     Apollo turned and walked away, heading towards the exit.  He
was just passing through the door when he heard Gamesh's last
remark.
     "A pity you let such a charming woman go.  But, of course,
you know what I'm talking about don't you?"
     Apollo continued on after pausing to listen to Gamesh, and
instantly regretting it.  Waves of pain flooded over him as he
remembered what it had been like when he was with Sheba.  Anger
boiling through him, he threw the ball into the locker room as he
prepared to change back into his warrior fatigues.

     "This debate on the destiny of our people will now
commence," said Sire Anton from atop his podium.  Hundreds of
civilians and warriors had gathered in the Great Hall to hear the
two men speak with thousands more watching on their monitors all
over the fleet.  Everyone would have a chance to vote on which
side they preferred to determine the future of their people.
Adama and Gamesh were standing at opposite ends of the stage.
Each man would approach the podium and deliver his arguments
supporting his cause.  At the end, the people would cast their
votes and the outcome would be decided that very night.
     "Councillor Gamesh, since you are the challenger we will
hear your arguments for settling on the first habitable world we
come to," said the senior councillor.
     "Thank you, Sire Anton," said Gamesh gracefully as he
positioned himself in front of the video monitors.  "My friends,
I do not support settling on the first habitable planet we chance
upon.  I propose choosing the path that is our only hope.
Choosing life rather than this waiting death that lingers out
amongst the stars."  Gamesh's image was transmitted across
monitors that were set up all over the fleet.  People on the
Rising Star watched him speak in their elegant settings.  The men
and women housed in their cramped quarters watched him as well
along with the engineers maintaining the steady operating engines
of the great battlestar.
     "Fellow colonists, we have been trapped in these steel cages
far too long.  For many yahrens we have travelled the stars in
search of the elusive hope represented by the planet Earth, but
to this day we have not seen any evidence that Earth in fact
exists.  I'm not saying that I don't believe in this mythical
wonderland.  Far from it, our faith that this world lies out
there somewhere has been the sole driving force that has held our
people's spirits aloft.  But faith alone cannot save us.  We also
need defenses to protect us from the many perilous dangers of
intergalactic space.  Who knows if we will encounter a meteor
storm that will decimate our numbers or if we wander into a black
hole that will crush our feeble ships through its immense
gravity.  Nothing is secure my friends, not even our ability to
defend ourselves from our most dangerous enemy, the Cylons.
     "We have just avoided a catastrophe by the barest of
margins.  Our entire people might have been wiped out in a single
stroke by this dreaded machine race.  What has Commander Adama
done?  Yes, he has saved us countless times from our foes but
even he is mortal and only one man.  Our archenemy has
demonstrated that they will go to any length to wipe us off the
plane of existence.  In this last battle they sent four
basestars, one more powerful than any two put together.  Can we
defend ourselves from this threat?  Can Adama save us with the
limited resources he is forced to draw upon?
     "Loyal travellers, we cannot continue on this mad journey
for it will surely destroy us.  How much longer can we avoid
destruction by the skin of our necks?  How much longer will we
cheat death by our desperate antics?  We must face the grim truth
that we are not as strong as we once were.  Our homes lie in
rubble and our great battlestar fleet is all but destroyed.  We
must realize that we are weak and virtually defenseless and must
seek safety in order to rebuild our people.  We need to regroup
and repopulate our species and build our defenses up so that
nothing can hurt us again!
     "Our base on that planet called New Caprica was but a
prototype of what I have planned.  There we had a group of
colonists and an entire contingent of Colonial warriors who went
undetected by the forces of the Cylon Empire due to the
camouflage field we have developed.  I believe this same
technology can be applied on a larger scale in order to hide the
city we will build.  A city similar to the ones we lived in back
in the Colonies so long ago.  A city that will prosper and thrive
and advance our people to the next pinnacle of civilization.  A
city so strong that none shall be able to take it away from us.
Parents, do you wish to see your children raised their whole
lives without the knowledge of what it is like to be in a
rainstorm or climb a tree?  Do you wish to continue this
lifestyle that degrades our culture and robs us of our greatest
strength?  I say we stop being subservient to the Cylons and
fight back!  Let us rebuild our society right in front of them
and become so powerful that we will one day throw the chains of
slavery off every sentient race that they have enslaved.  Let us
stop running and start the long campaign to victory!  Join me and
we will cease this madness and rebuild our nation!"
     Cheers and applause thundered in the Great Hall and amongst
the many ships of the fleet.  Gamesh's name was chanted in the
same tone reserved for a god as the people made it clear who they
sided with.  Apollo peered nervously around him as he was the
only one not supporting the Councillor's plan.  Gamesh's words
had even fallen on the ears of the military as several warriors
joined in support of Gamesh.  The noise continued for several
centons until Councillor Anton finally approached the podium and
signalled for silence.
     "Commander Adama, we will now hear your arguments for
staying in the fleet."
     Adama approached the podium in eerie silence.  "People of
the fleet, I will now remind you of what has transpired these
last yahrens so that you can remember why we are here.  A great
battle was fought and lost by our people and our homeworlds were
destroyed.  One man, with evil sewn into his heart, betrayed us
all.  We were a defeated people in all but spirit, and even there
some.  Realizing that we could not stay in our shattered homes we
came together in every spaceship possible and set out amongst the
stars to find refuge in the vastness of space.  But we realized
that we could not exist aimlessly forever so you accepted my
proposal that we seek out the lost Thirteenth Tribe, the last
vestige of humanity in the universe that could offer us safe
haven, the planet Earth.  Since that day we have been repeatedly
attacked and are continually pursued by our dreaded nemesis the
Cylons.  A machine race whose ideas and beliefs are alien to our
own forming an empire with one goal in mind, the total
destruction of humanity!
     "These are the reasons we are here today, not out of some
blind goal on my part but out of a sense of survival.  We will
never be safe until we reach Earth.  If we settle on a planet we
will surely be destroyed for our enemies are legion, and we are
but a few.  Our greatest weakness is our lack of numerical
strength.  Only on Earth can we find that which we need to
survive, a thriving population of our own kind.
     "Some of you say there is no such thing as Earth, that it is
but a myth.  I tell you that this planet exists!  I have seen the
writings on the tombs of Kobol detailing the exodus to Earth.
Lieutenant Starbuck discovered a depiction of the solar system
that Earth belongs to on the planet Proteus.  And Count Iblis
himself told us that this place exists."  Adama had to choke down
those last few words.  "But never mind that, I believe it exists
out of sheer faith.  It is written about in the Book of the Word,
our most holiest of texts and mentioned by the ancient Lords of
Kobol, whom our entire civilization was founded upon.  To reject
Earth is to destroy that which Councillor Gamesh seeks to
rebuild.  Our entire culture is based on this ancient wisdom.  If
we do not believe in Earth then we cannot believe in anything,
not even ourselves.  So many have died for our quest, let us not
make their sacrifice in vain.  Remember those who were left
behind, so that we may live on."
     In contrast to Gamesh's speech, Commander Adama's somber
mood brought a deafening silence over the crowd.  Not a single
soul spoke out loud as the weight of Adama's words sunk into the
crowd.  Councillor Anton quickly approached the podium, seeing
that things were taking a turn for the worse, and addressed the
multitude.
     "It is now time to record your vote.  Please decide between
Sire Gamesh's proposal or Commander Adama's."
     The people moved about to the nearest computer station to
record their vote.  All over the fleet, the same thing was
happening as the citizens of the last Colonial Fleet made a
choice between living outside their vessels or continuing on the
quest for Earth.  The candidates waited anxiously for the
results.  Sire Gamesh seemed ready to jump out of his seat while
Adama waited quietly in his.  The last time a referendum had been
held was when they had lived in the Twelve Worlds of the Three
Suns.  Sire Uri had proposed a referendum on Carillon but the
vote had never been taken when he was proven so obviously wrong
by the Cylon attack.  He was forced to resign his position, out
of political defeat not tradition.  Here would be the same
situation.  One would stand, one would fall.  Even without
tradition, the loser would not have enough power to maintain
their political clout for long after the debate.
     After what seemed like an eternity, Sire Anton approached
the podium to address the people.  "I now have the results of our
referendum.  The count was 66% to 32%, 2% of the population
abstaining.  Our people have chosen to support Commander Adama
and continue the journey to Earth. . ."
     A thunderous applause echoed throughout the hall and the
rest of the ships of the fleet, drowning out anything more Anton
said.  The cheering continued on and finally subsided as Adama
made it known that he wished to address the crowd.
     "I thank you.  Today we have reaffirmed our faith in our
ancestors and in ourselves.  May we now proceed with the
blessings of the Lord to our destination.  When we will reach
Earth, I cannot say, but I know, as do you, that it exists."
     "It might be sooner than you think," said Starbuck as he and
Boomer entered the chamber.  They approached the stage and
addressed Adama.
     "We found a marker," began Boomer. "Bearing the seal of the
Thirteenth Tribe."
     "We brought it back with us because we couldn't read what it
said," finished Starbuck.
     Adama leaned down to gaze at the black stone Boomer and
Starbuck laid before him.  The edges were finely cut and the
surface was as polished as glass.
     "It's made of zodiacon!" said Adama.
     "That's how we found it in the first place," said Starbuck.
     "Did you find anything else?" asked Adama excitedly.
"Ruins, monuments, any other structures?"
     "Yes," said Boomer.  "But we didn't have time to explore any
of them.  This tablet seemed to have some significance so we
brought it back immediately."
     "You did the right thing," congratulated Adama.  "We'll form
an archaeological team to return to the site."
     "Can you translate it, Father," said Apollo, also very
excited by any information that may be hidden in the tablet's
strange markings.
     "Yes, I believe I can.  This seal represents the Thirteenth
Tribe of Kobol who left their homes in search of Earth," said
Adama as he pointed to a ring of writing on the stone.  "This is
their course.  It describes everything they have passed on their
journey.  Planets and astronomical phenomena that we too have
encountered.  And here," said Adama as he became more excited.
"Here is the name of the tribe itself!  They called themselves
the tribe of Atlantis!"
     The word Atlantis was murmured throughout the crowd.  A
civilization that existed only in myth on the planet Kobol.  It
was said to be the most advanced society of their time in
technology as well as philosophy.  That legend had inspired the
Quorum of the Twelve to name a battlestar after it.

     "Gamesh, wait!" shouted Sheba as she chased after the
distraught councillor walking briskly down the corridor.  "I'm
sorry about what happened. . ."
     "Spare me your pity!" shot back Gamesh.  "Do you understand
what just happened?  My career, my whole life was just destroyed.
I have to resign my position on the Council now.  What do I have
left in my life?" said Gamesh in remorse.
     Sheba stared at him as if the answer to his question was
obvious.  "We still have each other," she said tentatively.
     "Fine consolation."
     Sheba was shocked and felt like she was just hit from behind
by a Cylon Raider.  Her blood boiled at being deceived and she
turned away from him abruptly.
     "Maybe you don't."
     "What?  Oh, my dear I'm sorry about my mood.  It will pass
with time.  In the meantime, let's adjourn to my quarters for a
quiet evening.  I don't feel like 'celebrating' with the rest of
the multitude."
     "Well maybe I do.  If you could see past your own petty
selfishness for a moment you would see that what Starbuck and
Boomer discovered benefits us all.  It means that we are on the
course for Earth and freedom from our enemies.  Isn't that what
you wanted or were you just after power!"  Sheba stomped off
leaving Gamesh speechless in the hallway.
     "Adama," muttered Gamesh under his breath.  "You have
crossed me for the last time.  First my title and now Sheba.  You
will pay for this dearly.  Mark my words, Adama.   You will pay!

     Sheba ran back into the Great Hall to join in the
festivities but Apollo blocked her entrance.
     "Sheba, I just wanted to apologize for my remarks in the
launch bay," said Apollo.
     "That's all right, Apollo," she said and looked back over
her shoulder.  "You were right.  Gamesh was just after the
Presidency.  He didn't care about the fleet or anyone else but
himself."
     Apollo grabbed her shoulders and embraced her.  "I care."
The two of them stayed like that for several centons before they
broke apart.
     "Apollo, what does this mean for us?" asked Sheba, not sure
if she wanted to know the answer.
     "I don't know.  I'm still haunted by ghosts from the past.
I'm not sure if I can ever escape them.  But I do want to give us
another chance.  I can't promise you anything, but I'm willing to
try."
     Sheba smiled back with tears in her eyes.  "That's all I
ever asked."
     The two gently made contact with their lips for a brief
instant and then went through the door to join in the
celebration.  They were back on their journey to Earth without
worry of any deviation from that course now that Adama had won
the debate.  The fleet had been reborn and rededicated to their
one true goal.



Fleeing from the Cylon tyranny the last battlestar, Galactica,
leads a ragtag fugitive fleet on a lonely quest.  A shining
planet known as Earth.
