Copyright 1994, 1995 by Adam C. Stacey
This story is written for pure pleasure and is not intended to
infringe on any preexisting copyrights that may be violated.
Feel free to share with your friends, but not for profit.
The author can be reached from 1992-1996 at Michigan State U.
email ID: stacey@student.msu.edu
________________________________________________________________

There are those who believe that life here began out there, far
across the universe, with tribes of humans who may have been the
forefathers of the Egyptians, or the Toltecs, or the Mayans.
That they may have been the architects of the great pyramids, or
the lost civilizations of Lemuria or Atlantis.

Some believe that there may yet be brothers of man who even now
fight to survive, somewhere beyond the heavens. . .


                      BATTLESTAR GALACTICA

                            starring

                          Richard Hatch
                          Dirk Benedict
                               and
                          Lorne Greene
                            as Adama

                        THE FIRST DEFEAT

                          also starring

                       Herb Jefferson, Jr.
                          John Colicos
                          Maren Jensen
                          Noah Hathaway
                         Laurette Spang
                           Tony Swartz
                          Anne Lockhart
                               and
                          Terry Carter
                         as Colonel Tigh

                           Written by

                         Adam C. Stacey


                  Based on Battlestar Galactica

                           Created by

                         Glen A. Larson


From the Adama Journals:
     It has been several yahrens since the destruction of our
homeworlds that started this trek across the stars.  After
looking back over the events of our journey, I have now come to
realize that our quest shall be neither brief nor easy.  There
are still unknown perils that lie before us.  But like each of
the dangers we have already conquered, I am optimistic about our
ability to handle whatever waits ahead.  It seems that the Lords
of Kobol have intended for us to reach our destination.  As for
the duration of our journey, I am unsure.  I don't know how long
it will take to reach Earth or who of us will survive to see if
this fabled world exists.  But of one thing I am absolutely
confident.  That one day, far off in the future, we will find
this haven somewhere in the universe and end this ceaseless
running from our enemies, the Cylons.


     Captain Apollo maneuvered his Viper towards the Battlestar
Galactica.  The Viper was the most advanced flying machine known
to man.  Well the men that he knew at least.  There was no
telling what the people of Earth had developed after all this
time.  Without a millennium long war with the Cylons, they may
have achieved new heights in human civilization.  But then again,
they may too be involved in a war for survival like Apollo's
people against a genocidal race determined to wipe man off the
face of the universe.  These were the kinds of questions that
Apollo pondered while he endured the routine chore of space
travel.  After years of flying out in the vastness of space,
interstellar flight had lost most of its initial appeal and
become an ordinary job.  But not all the mystery was gone.  The
day travelling through the stars became boring to Apollo was the
day he would hand in his wings.  And at the rate his father was
piling responsibilities on him that may come sooner than he might
think.
     He didn't completely resent it.  There were things that had
to be done and Apollo was the most qualified and able officer to
do them and gladly assumed the role he was needed for.  But he
missed the deep space probes with his wingmate Starbuck and
didn't get a chance to get out here very often anymore.  He was
thankful for the time he did have and was determined to make the
most of it.  For time, he painfully had come to understand, was
too short as his wife had found out on the bleak sands of a dead
world untold light yahrens behind them.  He had never quite
gotten over her death, especially with the constant reminder of
it embedded in the face of his adopted son.  It was this
unsettled piece of himself that had interfered with his brief
relationship with Sheba and was impeding its progress presently.
One day he hoped that he would be able to feel the same things
for Sheba that he had felt for Serina for that all too brief
moment in time.
     "Hey, Apollo?  Are you awake over there?  You got silent all
of a sudden," questioned Starbuck empathetically.  He speculated
what his buddy was thinking about at those times where he shut
himself off from the world and couldn't bear too see Apollo
silently suffer the way he did.  He knew the cause of Apollo's
pain but there was nothing he could do about and just wished that
Apollo would awaken from his self inflicted coma and stop blaming
himself for the cruel hand of fate.
     "I'm fine, Starbuck.  I was just thinking."
     "Oh?  About what?"
     "About how many more times we'll be out here together."
     "Not long if you don't stay alert over there," chided Lt.
Starbuck.  "It's been a long time since we've run into any Cylons
but I don't expect we've seen the last of them.  There's a Cylon
patrol out there just waiting for us to intercept and I want my
flight leader to be ready for action at a micron's notice."
     "Yes sir, Lieutenant," joked Apollo.
     "You know what I mean.  I'm just worried about those people
we left on New Caprica.  We've been getting a lot of signals out
in front of the fleet and we don't know what's out there or if
those people will be safe that we left behind."
     "Those signals could be coming from Earth," volunteered the
captain.
     "Yeah, and they could be coming from a Cylon death trap
waiting too be sprung," rebuked Starbuck.  "We just don't know."
     "Exactly, and that's why my father set up this colony so
that in case we don't return then the human race will live on."
     "If you think that retirement community back there will
propagate then we're in bigger trouble than I thought."
     "Aren't you confusing your feelings with a more personal
nature," investigated Apollo.  "Seeing how Cassiopeia is staying
behind to head up the life center."
     "Well. . . that's been over for a long time," lied Starbuck,
still feeling remorse over the deterioration of his relationship
with the beautiful blonde Gemon.  "And Cassiopeia can take care
of herself.  Besides you should be a little concerned too."
     That remark stung Apollo as he mumbled his reply.  "I still
think Athena is the best choice to administer the colony.  She
has all the fine qualities for command and if there were still a
fleet I'd lay odds she'd have the inside track to the next
battlestar commission."  It had been a hard decision for Adama to
separate his family, but he'd had to put his personal feelings
aside and make the decision that was best for the fleet.  His
father had repeatedly sent his children out on dangerous missions
and each time it had put the knife in his heart deeper and
deeper.
     "Galactica dead ahead.  Let's show them precision flying
like they never seen," said Apollo using his father's favorite
expression.  The two Vipers streaked across the heavens and set
down on the deck of the only home they had known for yahrens.
     "Captain Apollo and Lieutenant Starbuck have just landed
Commander," reported the black man standing with his usual
clipboard in hand.  Colonel Tigh was the second in command of the
Battlestar Galactica and Commander Adama's most loyal and trusted
officer.  Even though Tigh often disagreed with the Commander
over the holiness of their journey to Earth, he had never doubted
his superior's abilities and respected them more than any others.
Fierce respect and loyalty had caused him to speak his mouth too
many times in front of the brass and had cost him his own
battlestar countless times.  But those times were over.  That
life was over and he was glad to be counted among the lucky few
that had survived the destruction of their civilization at the
Holocaust.
     "Good," boomed the voice of Adama.  "Then let's get
underway.  Move the fleet ahead and keep a tight formation."
     The monstrous ship slowly moved ahead, leading the convoy of
ragtag ships, proceeding at only the best speed of the slowest
vessel in its endless entourage.

     "Father," announced Apollo as he entered the commander's
personal quarters.
     "Yes, Apollo, please sit down," motioned Adama as he gazed
out his viewport.
     "I know you're worried about her," began Apollo, cautiously
choosing his words.  "But it was the right decision.  Athena is
the most qualified person to be in charge of this assignment."
     "She's my youngest," Adama replied painfully.  Times like
these brought up the pain of losing his youngest son, Zac, at the
battle that had cost him his and everyone else's home.  Was the
loss of one child as heavy a toll as the loss of one's entire
family as many had experienced.
     "I know."  Apollo too, had painful memories of that day.  He
was with Zac on the mission that had discovered the Cylon ambush,
for all the good that early warning had done them.  The President
had refused to launch intercept craft for fear of destroying the
peace he had worked to achieve.  His mistake had cost them more
than a thousand or ten thousand mistakes could have burdened the
human race.  "But," Apollo continued.  "She'll be all right.
This disturbance ahead is nothing I'm sure, and once we've
determined that then we can return and bring them all up to the
Galactica."
     "Yes, I suppose you are right," conceded Adama.  "Just
sometimes I don't know if I can take another loss.  I wonder if
that's why I sent her there, to keep her out of harm."
     "You did that for the same reason you are the most respected
man in the fleet!" angrily burst Apollo, tired of seeing his
father torturing himself over and over.  "You would never ask
anyone to do what you wouldn't send your own offspring to do!"
     "Who's lecturing who now?" chided Adama.  He was immensely
proud of his son.  For a long time he thought his son would never
recover from the twin losses of his younger brother and briefly
betrothed.  But now he felt that Apollo was beginning to emerge
from his perpetual gloom and assert the inner strength he
possessed.
     "I've got to go," announced Apollo after a brief pause.  "I
want to check up on Starbuck and Boomer before their patrol."
     So that was it, thought Adama.  That was the cause of his
sudden burst of anger.  He is angry over his loss of flight time
due to the responsibilities I've added on him.  For a moment
Adama felt a twinge of guilt.  Maybe he was keeping Apollo behind
a desk for his own safety, but then again, the fleet needed
Apollo in his new capacity and he needed his son's abilities on
the bridge as much as Athena's.  After another stab of pain,
Adama returned his gaze to the viewport, staring ahead at what
was awaiting them out there.

     "And one more thing," Apollo recited for the tenth time.
"If you see any type of trouble, head immediately back to the
fleet.  We'll need your input more than your heroics this time,
Starbuck."
     "All right, all right, I understand, Captain.  If we see
anything suspicious take a quick peak and race back home."
Starbuck's cockpit shut at that moment and sealed itself to the
Viper.
     "Boomer," Apollo said looking over at his friend.
     "Don't worry, Apollo.  I'll keep an eye on him and we'll be
back in time for evening rations.  I promise."  Boomer's cockpit
closed at that instant denying Apollo a chance to reply.
     The two Vipers powered up their engines and launched.  The
fighters raced down their respective tubes and broke free into
space, heading on a course that would take them in front of the
fleet.

     "Hey, Boomer," said Starbuck.  "Have you worked at all on
that fumarella for me that won't put out as much smoke."
     Boomer chuckled at that.  Starbuck's fumarellas had achieved
widespread fame throughout the fleet.  In fact, new cadets
idolizing the young war hero had started a new trend by smoking
non-nicotine ones.  It had become the new fad on the academy ship
and had generated a booming business that Starbuck was all to
happy to seize on with a little arm twisting of his best friend.
So far the Commander had looked the other way but it was only a
matter of time before Colonel Tigh caught on and then they would
be seeing deep space patrol duty for a quarter of a yahren.
     "Don't even start, Starbuck.  I can't believe you talked me
into this."
     "What are you talking about.  It's a legitimate deal that
can't go wrong."
     "Yeah," replied Boomer.  "That's what you said about your
last gambling system and I'm stilling paying off that debt!"
     "Whoa, Boom-boom.  Tell me when was the last time I let you
down twice in a row," interjected the brash lieutenant.
     While Boomer was milling over a good reply to that remark,
trying to pin down just one instance out of the many he could
think of, the scanners chimed a warning.
     "Starbuck, are you getting something on the forward
scanners?" questioned Boomer.
     "Just a micron," Starbuck said as he flipped on his display.
"Yeah, dead ahead.  I'll bet you that's our communication source
and its not that far away.  Let's go take a look."
     "I'm with you, but remember what Apollo said," warned
Boomer.
     "Yeah, yeah, I remember mother's instructions.  I'll be
careful."  With that, Starbuck ignited his thrusters and peeled
off in a slow roll to the right.  Boomer followed right on his
tail.
     "I'm getting some crazy readings on my scope.  They're
coming from a large planet in this solar system.  The scanners
can't make heads or tails of them.  We better report this to the
Galactica," concluded the dark lieutenant, as cautious a man as
his partner was brash.
     "Boomer," echoed Starbuck in that 'I'm going do something
crazy and con you to go along with me' voice that Boomer knew all
too well.  "We're beyond range of direct communication with the
fleet and we've come all this way.  Let's just zip in, take a
quick peep and zip right out.  We'll only be gone for a few
centons.  No problem."
     Boomer reluctantly agreed, knowing that Starbuck was going
to go with or without him and besides, if he went along he may
keep him out of trouble.  The two Vipers streaked ahead towards
the multi-ringed world.
     "I've never seen so many rings on a planet before.  And the
rocks seem to be composed of some ore that jams our scanners,"
reported Boomer.  "Watch yourself!"
     "You bet," Starbuck casually replied, and dove straight
through the maze of speeding rocks.
     "Starbuck!" shouted Boomer, but he was already out of range
and his scanner couldn't pick him up through the interference.
     Right before he could ignite his turbos and go in after him,
Starbuck's Viper came shooting out of the asteroid ring with full
turbos blasting.
     ". . . out of here, Boomer!  It's a trap!" erupted
Starbuck's voice over the static.
     Without hesitating, Boomer rotated his ship around and went
off in pursuit of his wingmate.  Just as he was turning around he
caught a glimpse of something very large out of the corner of his
eye.  In the next moment, laser fire erupted and struck the
asteroids that were near Boomer's fighter a few moments ago.
     "Felgercarb," muttered Boomer.  "Must be a Cylon trap.  Did
you get a look at what that was Starbuck?  Starbuck?"
     "Ah, frack!" cursed Starbuck.  "They've jammed our
communications!  We can't even send a delayed message to the
fleet.  I guess it'ss up to us."
     Boomer sensed the agitation in Starbuck's voice and wondered
what he could have seen that would have shaken him up that much.
     "Starbuck, talk to me."
     "I don't know what it was Boomer, but it was big!  It looked
like a Cylon basestar but only a lot more deadly.  That thing is
at least twice as big as their usual capital ships and is armed
to the teeth!"  Starbuck paused for emphasis.  "We've got to get
back to the fleet and warn them or they won't know what hit
them!"  The two warriors continued on their journey with the
Cylon colossus in pursuit.

     The attack was imminent, thought the Imperious Leader, high
atop his command pedestal in the first city of the Cylon Empire.
The construction of the super basestar had been completed ahead
of schedule and he couldn't have found a more competent Cylon to
command the most powerful ship in the universe for this mission.
Even though he was on the brink of triumph over the last
survivors of the Colonies, the Leader could not entirely
concentrate on the task at hand.
       Recently he had noticed an anomaly in his circuitry that
any other being might call an obsession.  His relentless
dedication to the eradication of all human life in the star
system.  This one goal had consumed his tenure of leadership over
the most powerful empire in the history of the universe.  His
predecessor had seen to it that the human civilization had been
destroyed, but he had not totally eliminated this irritating
manifestation.
     The Imperious Leader viewed the span of the Cylon Alliance
as infinite.  That was why he could not allow one human to
survive.  If the Galactica and her fleet ever found safe refuge
from which to rebuild their civilization, they might pose a
threat to their order in a handful of millennia.  That threat
could not be allowed to continue.  The Leader had already taken
many steps towards the conclusion of this war which his
predecessor had all but brought to a close.  His predecessor had
paid for his incompetence and had been destroyed in the explosion
that consumed the planet Carillon and allowed the humans to
escape into the cosmos on their uninterrupted journey.  This
Leader had made certain that the complete annihilation of
everything associated with human life be the Empire's top
priority.  That was why he had ordered the destruction of the
planet Kobol after the humans' escape from another Cylon trap.
This planet was the origin of all human life in the star system
and he wanted it to be a symbol of his new dedication to this
war.
     The Alliance had paid a heavy price for its focus on the
last battlestar.  The boundaries of the Cylon Empire were growing
slower than ever with the removal of precious baseships to search
for the elusive fleet.  If this war was not won soon, the
integrity of the Cylon Empire might be compromised.  But if the
humans were not eliminated, the Empire might be doomed to
destruction in the end.  No other lifeform had fought their order
more efficiently and successfully than the human race.  They must
be destroyed or the machine race he presided over would swiftly
become the hunted rather than the hunter.

     Aboard the Galactica, all was going routinely, but a sense
of foreboding doom was swelling up within the crew.  There long
range patrol was overdue in their report and Adama couldn't help
but feel that something was inherently wrong out there.  It was
times like these that Adama yearned for his lost youth when he
and Tigh were hotshot pilots under his father's command, much
like Apollo and Starbuck were now.  Every time he looked at those
two, he saw an image of himself and his old friend and could
envision the day when the next generation would inherit the
responsibilities of command and take their rightful place as
leaders.
     "Commander," began Flight Sergeant Rigel.  "We have an
incoming transmission from New Caprica."
     "Commander, they were under strict orders to maintain radio
silence.  Athena wouldn't have broken that unless it was a good
reason," declared Tigh.  New Caprica was being protected by a
camouflage shield similar to the one that kept the Galactica and
its fleet invisible from the Cylons most of the time.
     "Put it through up here," ordered Adama from atop his
command pedestal which gave an unobstructed view of the majority
of the bridge.  Most commanders used the strategic location of
this position to enforce discipline in the crew as Tigh often
did.  But Adama used it to coordinate military matters more
efficiently as he was sure his executive officer would agree.
     "Galactica!" hurriedly addressed Lt. Athena.  "Three Cylon
baseships have just passed by New Caprica on your heading.
Advise immediate action.  Baseships approaching at flank speed!"
     "Battlestations!" declared Adama as the whooping klaxon
sounded in the background, alerting the crew to the urgent change
in status.  "Assemble Blue and Red squadrons for immediate
launch.  Alert Captain Bojay to assemble Silver Spar Squadron and
standby in the launch bay!"
     The bridge crew immediately reacted to the Commander's
orders with impressive efficiency.  Tremors could be felt through
the deck as Colonial warriors all over the Galactica raced to
their Vipers.  Most officers would react with nervousness in
anticipation of the battle, but the crew of the Galactica was
remarkably composed.  They had been through more life and death
situations than most people ever experienced and each time their
commander had managed to avoid certain destruction with a calm
and cool demeanor.  His composure on the bridge served to ease
the tensions around him and gave his crew a sense of confidence
in the upcoming crisis.
     "Blue Squadron ready to launch," announced Captain Apollo.
Adama realized that this was probably his last combat mission for
he would soon promote him to handle more administrative
responsibilities.
     "Red Squadron ready to launch," snapped Flight Sergeant
Greenbean right after.  Without Starbuck or Boomer here,
Greenbean was the next senior in rank to command the squadron.
     "Launch!" ordered Adama in his booming voice.
     "Launch all Vipers," relayed Rigel.
     A shudder was felt through the deck as dozens of Vipers
streaked down their respective launch tubes and shot out into
space.  After only a few moments, Apollo assembled Blue and Red
squadrons and guided them to their rendezvous with the Cylons.
     "Silver Spar Squadron standing by," announced Captain Bojay,
formerly of the Battlestar Pegasus.
     "Sir," began Tigh.  "We have confirmation.  Three baseships
are entering scanner range.  Approximately twenty-five microns to
intercept."
     Three baseships, thought Adama.  It had taken only three
baseships to wipe out civilization as they knew it.  Three
baseships had awaited them at Gomoray and it had taken two
battlestars, with the loss of one of them, to defeat the Cylons
there.  He liked to think that his old friend Cain was still out
there somewhere, battling the Cylons in his own war.  But the
odds of that were becoming dimmer after every secton passed
without word from him.  He had been silently dreading the moment
when the Cylons would amass this strong a force against him and
that time had finally come.
     "Launch Silver Spar Squadron," decided Adama.  That would
leave the Galactica and the fleet virtually defenseless but how
much more could the Cylons throw at them than three baseships.
As the deck shuddered again at the departure of more ships,
something was tingling in the back of Adama's mind.  Something
didn't seem right here and he sensed the Cylons had more cards in
their deck than what they were showing, as Starbuck would say.
     "Sir," began Rigel.  "Long range patrol is entering scanner
range."
     "Good," announced Adama.  "ave them report immediately . ."
     "Commander," interrupted Rigel.  "At the rate they are
coming in they must be on full turbos."
     "Patch me through immediately!"
     ". . .repeat, Galactica you are under imminent attack,"
spoke Starbuck's voice.  "Cylon warship pursuing us!"
     "Sir," began Flight Officer Omega.  "We have a large vessel
entering scanner range.  Warbook can't identify it.  The computer
places it between a Cylon basestar and a Delphian bulk
freighter."
     "Sound the alert!" announced Adama.  "Bring out the ready
reserves and the cadets!" ordered Adama, knowing that most of
those pilots had just been sent out to there deaths.  Four
basehips, thought Adama.  That was staggering.  Where had the
Cylons been able to pull that many ships from?  Perhaps the
boundaries of Cylon space were more extensive than they had
believed.  After all these yahrens they might still be within the
territorial limits of the Cylon Empire.
     "Colonel, have Starbuck and Boomer report to the bridge
immediately after they have landed."
     "Yes, sir," replied Tigh, still amazed at the strength of
the Cylon force they now confronted and puzzled at the identity
of the new warship.

     "Blue and Red squadrons, close up formation," ordered
Apollo.  "Bojay, bring Silver Spar Squadron up the rear and take
care of anything that gets through.  We've got two hundred and
twenty defenseless ships to protect, and we're all that stands
between them."
     "Roger, Apollo," replied Bojay.  "We'll clean up what you
miss."  A little competition between squadrons never hurt
efficiency.
     "Here they come!" said Sgt. Greenbean in his uncontrolled
high pitched voice.
     Successive walls of Cylon fighters bore down on the Colonial
fighters in their ceaseless assault on the last remnants of
humanity.  Several Vipers were destroyed in the first exchange of
weapons fire with several more Cylon Raiders exploding into
cosmic dust.
     "Break off and engage in single combat," ordered Apollo.
     Dozens of Vipers peeled off from formation and maneuvered to
engage the Cylon Raiders.  Raiders travelled in groups of threes
and the Vipers were originally overmatched.  But with the
elimination of the lead Cylon in the trio, the other two were
separated and disorganized, giving the humans an advantage.  One
by one, the Raiders were destroyed in the dogfight that ensued.
     "Captain, I've got two on my tail!" hollered Jolly.
     "I'm on my way," replied Apollo as he steered his Viper to
the rescue of his friend.
     With precision flying Apollo maneuvered his ship to within
range of the trailing Cylon fighter and destroyed it with a
volley of laser fire.  He then swung up high and, with pinpoint
accuracy, obliterated the second Cylon Raider from up top,
preventing the explosion from damaging Jolly's ship.
     "Thanks, Apollo," responded Jolly in gratitude.
     "You can thank me by saving Giles.  He looks like he's about
to have some trouble."
     "I'm on it," replied Jolly.
     Apollo looked around the battle and noticed something
peculiar.  "Bojay?  Have any Cylons slipped through yet?"
     "No, Captain," answered Bojay.  "It looks like they've
stopped to engage you.  I'm coming up to give you a hand."  In
the next instant, Silver Spar Squadron activated their turbos and
proceeded to engage the Cylons.
     "That's not right," muttered Apollo.  The Cylons always have
tried to break through the lines and inflict as much damage on
the fleet as possible, thought the warrior.  "Unless their trying
to keep us busy for something else."  A premonition of doom swept
over Apollo as he activated his intercom.  "Apollo to Galactica,
what's the situation over there."
     "Captain, we have an incoming Cylon warship from in front of
the fleet.  Maintain your position.  Additional reinforcements
have been alerted.  Tigh out."
     Reinforcements, thought Apollo.  That could only mean that
he had sent out the ready reserves to take on a Cylon basestar.
A bunch of cadets and aged warriors were no match for a Cylon
baseship.  But there was nothing he could do since their hands
tied right now battling three Cylon baseships by themselves.
With that, Apollo reentered the battle only to see another
Colonial Viper explode before his eyes.

     "Is that thing still behind us?" questioned Starbuck.
     "Yeah, but now we have some more company," replied Boomer.
     Starbuck looked behind him and saw a wall of Raiders bearing
down on them.  Starbuck started to think if maybe the infamous
Starbuck's Luck had finally run out when he spotted something in
the distance.
     "Hallelujah!" exclaimed Starbuck, as he caught the
Battlestar Galactica in the distance.
     "I'm with you," acknowledged Boomer.
     As they approached their home ship, a squadron of Vipers
zoomed past them on an intercept course with the enemy.
     "Boomer, did you see the markings on those ships?" said
Starbuck in disbelief.
     "Those weren't Blue or Red squadrons.  They looked more like
the cadets and ready reserves."
     Just then, the confusion cleared up for the two warriors.
     "Boomer, I think we're in big trouble."

     Ensign Dietra lead Reserve Squadron against the Cylons.  The
last time she had been in this type of hopeless situation was
when the Galactica's warriors had been incapacitated by an
unknown disease and women from all over the fleet had joined up
to fill in for the downed warriors.  They had then fought and won
a major victory over Kobol, with the belated help of their
returning comrades.  But this time was different.  There wouldn't
be any reinforcements.  It was all up to them.
     "All right team," began Dietra.  "Let's show the Galactica
that we're not a group of past-timers and wannabees."
     "Right," yelped Cadet Brie, another female warrior.
     "Break and hit them hard!" ordered Dietra.
     The Colonial Vipers separated from each other in a not so
perfect peel off and roll over maneuver.  The last time they were
in a dogfight, they had relied on their inexperience and
unorthodox battle techniques to achieve victory.  Commander Adama
had encouraged them to keep that up, but she was afraid that all
the practice in trying to be unorthodox had made them
predictable.  She would soon find out.
     Dietra pulled her Viper in a head on collision course with
three Cylon Raiders.  She released a volley of laser fire while
corkscrewing off to her left.  The Cylon fighters missed her
completely with one exploding in her wake.  Well, she thought,
that was one down and a hundred more to go.
     The rest of the battle was not going as well.  After initial
victories by all pilots, the age of the older ones was beginning
to show.  Several pilots had been killed by not being able to
react fast enough, or by using battle techniques that were
outdated and easily predictable by their Cylon counterparts.
Many died heroically though, with one pilot taking out three
Cylon Raiders in a suicide run due to an engine failure.  Dietra
made a mental note to recommend that pilot for a medal,
posthumously.
     Dietra evaded a Raider who was bearing down on her and was
bringing her Viper to bear on another enemy ship when she noticed
her fatal mistake.  The escape move she had started had put her
right in the middle of the deadly Cylon pinwheel attack.  It was
too late to break up their coordination and in another few
moments she would be a collection of scattered atoms.  Determined
to make the most of her death, she put herself on a collision
course with the nearest Cylon, hoping to take one out before they
opened fire.  Just then the Cylon in front of her was destroyed
enabling to Dietra to break out of the trap.  She swung around
and vaporized one of the other Raiders with a vengeance as cold
as space itself while her companion destroyed a third of the
trio.
     "Thank you, whoever that was," said Dietra in gratitude.
     "No problem, Skipper," replied Brie.
     Maybe they had a chance, thought Dietra in amazement until
she looked around and noticed why there were no more Cylons
around them.
     "Brie!  They've broken through!  Reserves, form up and
pursue back to the Galactica, full turbos!"  We're all that's
left between us and the destruction of the fleet, remarked Dietra
privately.  "I only hope the others are doing better."

     The Cylons continued their relentless assault.  Overall the
Galactica warriors were handling themselves well, but Apollo knew
it was only a matter of time before fatigue set in and the sheer
numbers of the Cylons would overwhelm the Colonial warriors.
     Apollo got an idea and activated his ship-to-ship
communicator.  "Jolly, take command.  I've got an idea."
     "Where are you going, Captain?" asked Jolly as he watched
Apollo's Viper peel off from the group.
     "Right down the maw of that Cylon basestar!"
     "Apollo's that's crazy!"
     "You have your orders.  I'll be back before you know it."
With that, Apollo directed his fighter into a trio of Raiders.
He fired his lasers at a point just in front of the lead Cylon
ship.
     "There," said Apollo, satisfied with his deed.  "That ought
to get your attention."
     The three Cylon fighters turned to pursue Apollo who
promptly applied his turbo engines and flew straight at the
nearest Cylon basestar.  If he could only damage one of them,
that might cause the other two to withdraw since their would be
inadequate fueling facilities for all of their ships in a
continuous battle.
     Apollo flew right between two basestars towards the one in
the rear.  That would be the basestar that contained the brains
of the operation, he thought.  And as long as I'm in between
them, they can't fire for fear of hitting each other.  The last
time he had gone up against a Cylon basestar was with Starbuck at
the Battle of Gomoray.  There the legendary Commander Cain had
piloted his battlestar, the Pegasus, right between two Cylon
basestars in order to get at Baltar's ship.  Apollo and Starbuck
had knocked out the Cylons' anti-missile defense systems in order
to give Cain a clear path through.  They had never known if their
plan succeeded.  The resulting explosion of two Cylon baseships
caused so much glare that they never saw if the Pegasus made it
or not.  She was presumed lost, but Apollo wondered often if the
Juggernaut had managed another victory out of the jaws of defeat.
     He passed through the two ships and was greeted with a
volley of laser fire from the third.  "Well this one doesn't
worry about hitting the others," mumbled Apollo.  "I'd better
make this quick."
     Apollo flew straight towards the middle of the Cylon ship,
the point where it was most vulnerable.  He fired his laser
torpedoes until their charge was used up and at the last possible
second escaped a collision.  The Cylon pilots, as he had hoped,
were not so quick to act and followed their prey straight into
their own baseship.  Apollo looked back to see the Cylon baseship
suffer explosion after explosion and soon the structural support
could not stay together any longer.  The top hemisphere of the
Cylon warship crashed down upon its lower twin and the deadly
Cylon basestar exploded in a glare that whited out space itself.
     "Nice job, Skipper," cheered Jolly.  "The Cylons are
retreating back to their baseships."
     "Let's contact the Galactica and see how they're doing,"
replied Apollo.  "Apollo to Galactica."  No reply followed.
"Captain Apollo to the Galactica."
     "Apollo," moaned Jolly in despair.
     "Let's not jump to conclusions, Jolly.  If the Galactica had
been destroyed we would have seen it," assured the captain.
"You stay here and I'll go take a look."
     "Captain Apollo," a voice broke in over the comlink before
Apollo could depart.
     "Yes, Ensign Dietra," replied Apollo, recognizing the voice
of the dark skinned pilot.
     "Captain, Cylon Raiders have boarded the Galactica!"
reported the fiery woman.  Then more somberly.  "I've think she's
been captured."

     Walls of Cylon fighters bore down on the last battlestar in
their relentless assault against the human race.  The Cylons
operating these war machines didn't bother to engage the Colonial
warriors that had been sent out to intercept them.   Their
mission was clear and they proceeded unimpeded towards the
Galactica.
     "Commander, Cylon craft have broken through our front lines.
Ensign Dietra is regrouping to pursue but the Cylons will be on
top of us any micron," reported Colonel Tigh grimly.
     "Activate defense systems," ordered Adama, preparing for the
fight of his life.  "Negative shield."
     The great shield doors vertically closed over the main
screen, shutting out images of Raiders closing down on the great
warship.
     The Cylons attacked with machine efficiency, selecting
targets and then destroying them.  The automatic defense systems
came to life and numerous laser cannons began firing at the
enemy.  Raider after Raider was destroyed as they came within
range.  Some Cylons got off shots before they were obliterated,
destroying a laser cannon or two in the process.  But the
destruction of the Galactica was not the goal of the Cylons in
this battle.  This time they had come to capture the battlestar
intact and deliver it to their superior.
     Cylon ships concentrated their assault on the laser turrets
mounted near the landing bay and once neutralized, began their
descent into the interior of the ship.  This was noticed all to
clearly by the Galactica crew on the bridge.
     "They're going to try to take us this time, Adama," said
Tigh after seeing the pattern emerge on the monitors.
     "Alert all warriors to move on the landing bay.  We can't
allow them to get to the inner parts of the ship.  If they reach
the solium tanks or the weapons arsenal they might due more than
capture us."
     Bridge personnel obediently began to relay the Commander's
orders.  With most of the Galactica's warriors out in space, few
were able to answer the call.
     "Notify all personnel to lock themselves in their quarters
until the situation is secure," ordered Adama.
     Tigh swiftly carried out the order as people scattered to
shelter in preparation for the imminent attack.
     The Cylons fired lasers on stun setting as they entered the
landing bay, rendering the ground crew useless to resist.  As the
Raiders finished their landing, dozens of Cylon warriors exited
their craft and proceeded to the bridge.  That was the nerve
center of the ship and where the human Adama would be.  The
Cylons moved relentlessly through the passageways of the
Galactica.  Along the way, Colonial warriors attempted to stop
them.  The Cylons suffered casualties but within moments the
humans had been defeated.
     "Are all the civilians out of their way," questioned Adama
to his second.
     "As far as I know, yes," replied Tigh as he glanced down at
a hard copy of a report.  "But with all the confusion there's no
way to tell."
     "Prepare to flood the passages with cryolic gas."
     "Adama, we don't know if that will have any effect," replied
Tigh.  "And if there are any civilians in the area they will be
killed instantly."
     "I know, Tigh, but we can't allow them access to the
bridge."
     Colonel Tigh paused to let that last statement sink in.
Trying to clear his conscience of the possible deaths that would
ensue, he turned to the deck officer to relay the Commander's
orders.  "Omega, flood the passages between the Cylons and the
bridge."
     "Yes, sir," replied Omega softly and began to carry out the
order.

     Starbuck and Boomer waited behind a group of crates until
the last Cylon had passed by.
     "Boomer," pleaded Starbuck.  "We've got to do something!  We
can't just sit here and let them take the ship."
     "I know, Starbuck," replied Boomer in the tone of voice he
reserved for dealing with Starbuck in his present condition.
"But there are fifty of them and two of us!"
     "Well we can't just sit here!" exclaimed Starbuck,
frustrated by their inaction.  Boomer was the cautious one, but
Starbuck had always preferred the 'run in with your guns blazing'
approach.
     "Look," Boomer began calmly, trying to knock some sense into
his friend.  "We will do something.  But for right now we should
just sit and wait.  We won't do anybody any good if we're dead.
Commander Adama can take care of the situation."  Boomer realized
he wasn't changing Starbuck's mind at all, and tried a different,
more personal approach.  "We're the capstone on the pyramid,
Starbuck.  We'll wait here until we get our shot.  We don't want
to tip our hand to the enemy too early.  Alright?"
     Starbuck began to think about that, and acting against every
muscle in his body, he listened to his brain and heeded his
friend's advice.  "Alright, Boomer, we'll play it your way,"
acquiesced Starbuck.  "For now."
     Well, a partial victory is better than no victory when it
comes to Starbuck, thought Boomer.  Now there was nothing to do
but wait.

     The Cylon centurions marched unopposed inside the Galactica.
As they progressed to the bridge, an unlocked door slid open off
to the side.  A centurion turned around to investigate this
anomaly and saw a human female clutching a small child.  The
woman screamed for an instant until a discharge from the Cylon's
weapon silenced the woman forever.  The centurion turned to
rejoin his comrades as they progressed to the bridge.

     "I never thought I'd see the day . . ." began Colonel Tigh
as he gazed at the monitor showing the Cylons' march to the
bridge.
     "Neither did I, Tigh," admitted Adama.  They had grappled
long and hard with this enemy, and never in their long yahrens of
struggle had they seen a Cylon warrior freely walking the decks
of the Galactica.  It was the most unholy intrusion that they
could possibly think of, and they both couldn't help but think
that the purity of their battleship, and their souls, had been
tarnished in some way.
     "Everything's ready, Commander," reported Omega.
     "Release the gas," replied Adama, silently wishing that no
innocent bystanders would be caught by the deadly toxin.
     The green vapors began to filter into the passageways in
front of the Cylons.  Cryolic gas was a dense atmospheric vapor
that generated a tremendous electrical charge.  It was used to
stir clouds to rain on planets they visited, but used in a dense
environment like the halls of the Galactica it could produce a
tremendous amount of energy.  The centurions approached the green
cloud barrier before them.  Small bursts of lightning could be
seen erupting inside the cloud.  The bridge crew watched the
monitor as the enemy passed into the trap.  Microns turned into
centons and the Galactica warriors began to breathe a sigh of
relief when suddenly Rigel spotted motion on her monitor.
     "Look!" said Rigel, quieting everyone down.  The Cylon death
parade emerged unscathed from the electrical bombardment.  Only
one centurion had been affected and his systems shorted out just
shy of the end as he collapsed forward, only his head emerging
from the deadly green mist.
     "It didn't even slow them down!" exclaimed Colonel Tigh.
     Adama took in the images he beheld with his own eyes.  After
a few moments of silence he made his decision.
     "Issue arms to all personnel on the bridge and take up
defensive positions," ordered Adama.
     Everyone hurried to obey and prepare for the impending
battle.  No one bothered to notice an unauthorized intrusion on
the bridge until a mechanical sounding growl was heard by the
senior officer, along with the voice of its master commanding
silence.
     "Quiet, Muffy," the voice said.
     "Boxey!" said Adama in disbelief as he beheld the image of
his grandson before his eyes.
     "Sorry, Grandpa.  We'll be more quiet from now on," replied
the boy, naive to the danger surrounding him.

     "The Cylons must be jamming our communications," said
Apollo.
     "Well what are we waiting for," said Jolly, expecting to
join the battle soon.
     Apollo thought long and hard.  They had just finished an
exhausting and time consuming battle.  Their fuel was low, and
they had no communications with the Galactica.  Thinking about
his father and his son, Apollo made the most difficult decision
in his life.
     Apollo switched over to unicom.  "Ships of the fleet, this
is Captain Apollo.  After engaging the Cylons, it is our belief
that the Galactica is under hostile attack.  We do not believe
that she is in any immediate danger.  It appears that the Cylons
mean to capture her, and I'm sure Commander Adama can deal with
the situation.  In the meantime, you will execute a 180 degree
turn and follow three squadrons of Vipers to a rendezvous point
from which we will escort you to safety.  Captain Apollo out."
     "Captain," exclaimed Jolly.  "Do you know what you're
doing?"
     "Apollo, we can't just leave them here," sounded Bojay in
support.
     "Yes we can," said Apollo sternly.  "I'm doing the only
thing I can right now, and that's saving lives.  With the
Galactica repelling boarders, the fleet is in danger.  We have to
ensure that the human race survives, at any cost.  Is that
clear."
     "Yes, sir," chirped in Jolly and Bojay together along with
several murmurs of approval by the other pilots.
     "All right, you have your orders," replied Apollo.
     As the ships of the fleet prepared to follow the surviving
Vipers, Apollo's thoughts drifted towards those on the Galactica,
including a little boy and his daggit.  Reassuring himself that
he was doing the right thing and that his father could handle
anything he was in, Apollo ignited his turbos and lead the fleet
back to New Caprica.

     "Boxey," exclaimed Adama once more in disbelief.  This was
the last place he wanted his grandson to be with the Cylons
preparing to attack at any moment.  "What are you doing here!"
     "I wanted to be where the action was," replied the boy,
oblivious to the danger he was in.
     Trying not to frighten the boy, Adama gently prodded Boxey
to safety, placing him in the cubby hole below one of the
computer stations.
     "I don't want to hide, Grandpa," wined Boxey with daggit in
tow.  "I'm a junior cadet you know.  I want to help!"
     "You can Boxey," soothed Adama.  "You see this computer
station?" the boy nodded his head.  "Well, this station is very
important to the functioning of the ship and I want you and Muffy
to stand guard here and protect it."
     Eager to help in any way, Boxey replied earnestly.  "You can
count on us, Commander!  Right Muffy?"  The mechanical daggit
barked, or attempted to make a sound close to a bark, in
agreement.
     "Good, I knew I could count on you," Adama confided and took
his place at the top of the command podium.
     Everyone became silent, privately hoping that if no one
could hear them, then the Cylons might pass by.  In a few moments
their wishful thinking turned to despair as Cylon laser rifles
blew out the doors to the bridge and a multitude of shiny,
metallic giants marched through.
     A furious battle erupted with the Galactica warriors
returning fire, fighting for their lives.  The Cylons fell one by
one, but no sooner than a centurion was disabled, than another
took its place.  The Cylons were deadly efficient in their aim
and several Galacticans met their fates.  These warriors weren't
the best when it came to combat.  They were mostly technicians
and warriors who weren't qualified for the glory to be Viper
pilots.  Their inexperience showed despite their heroic efforts
to the contrary.  The Cylons were gaining the upper hand, when a
daggit erupted from its perch and bounded to the nearest Cylon,
attempting to pierce its metal armor with its teeth.
     "Muffy, come back!" shouted the pet's master as he dutifully
leapt after his friend.
     "No, Boxey!" shouted Colonel Tigh, realizing too late that
his command had not been heeded.
     Before Tigh or Adama could make a move, Omega rushed after
Boxey, desperately trying to stop the inevitable.  A Cylon
warrior took its mark and fired on the Colonial warrior, bringing
him to the ground.  The shot just glanced off of Omega, but the
pain stopped him just as effectively.
     Boxey ran up to the Cylon attacking his daggit and began
kicking him in the shins.  The Cylon warrior turned its efforts
away from the mechanical menace and picked Boxey up off the
ground with its spare hand.
     "I have the boy," droned the Cylon squad leader in its
monotone, artificial voice.  "Surrender or he will be destroyed."
     There were no terms, no sense of bluffing.  The Cylon
warrior had Boxey and was going to kill him if they didn't do
what he wanted.  With painful remorse for what he was about to
do, Adama stood up and said something he promised himself he
would never say.
     "Cease fire."  He paused for a heartbeat to collect his
courage and swallow any pride remaining in his soul.  "We
surrender."

     About now, the Galactica bridge should be secured, thought
the Imperious Leader from atop his command pedestal in the First
City of the Cylon Empire.  Communications technology had advanced
at an incredible pace since he had been chosen as the next
Supreme Cylon.  Thanks to the efforts of the human known as Dr.
Ravashol and his invention, he was able to maintain close contact
with all of his forces, wherever they may be in the universe.
     Dr. Ravashol's device, the Ravashol pulsar-laser
communication wave unit, had been turned into a deadly weapon
atop Mt. Hekla on the ice planet of Tairac.  That device had
nearly been the end of Adama, had it not been for the efforts of
a particular loathsome duo of humans known as Starbuck and
Apollo.  Those two humans had cost him victory more times than he
was ready to count.
     The communications device had not been solely devoted to
warfare.  Its communications abilities had also been exploited
allowing him to maintain contact with almost every corner of the
Cylon dominion.  Little did Baltar know how closely he was being
watched atop his chair, thinking out loud his dreams of empire
and conquest.  The Imperious Leader knew of Baltar's plot to rest
Gomoray from him and make it his personal seat of power, until
Commander Cain spoiled those plans.  He almost silently thanked
Cain for his military victory, for he might not have been able to
control Baltar if he would have succeeded in defeating Adama at
Gomoray.  Because of that fiasco, Baltar's usefulness grew thin
after he cost the Imperial Navy two top of the line basestars and
their respective crews.  But before the Imperious Leader could
act, Baltar once again blundered at a convenient time.  Strange
how that human had been able to make so many disastrous mistakes
and still have the opportunity to make more, thought the Leader.
     Baltar had finally made a critical error in approaching the
same humans he had betrayed and expecting them to take him as an
emissary of peace once more.  The humans responded to his
suggestion of an alliance against the mysterious beings of light
by incarcerating him for life.  Nevertheless, Baltar had been
useful as a scapegoat.  It wasn't good for the mind state of a
superior race to suffer repeated defeat at the hands of an
inferior lifeform without some good excuse.  Without Baltar, the
Imperious Leader needed another who had the ability to achieve
victory and yet could be adequately blamed for possible defeat
without injury to Cylon superiority.  He had found that commander
and the transition had been accomplished with great ease.  The
possibilities of success were higher than ever.  He was confident
that Baltar's successor would succeed where the former had
failed.
     Too much time and effort had been invested in this operation
for the Galactica and its fleet to be simply destroyed.  For his
own personal satisfaction, and the glory of the superiority of
Cylon civilization, the Galactica had to be captured and her crew
brought back to Cylon to demonstrate their inferiority.  Above
all, Adama must be brought before him, on his knees.  That was
the only way to justify the tremendous effort that had been put
into this increasingly overextended operation.

     A Cylon centurion entered the command chambers of the super
basestar.  Approaching the command pedestal, he uttered a three
word phrase that had been used for millennia in the Cylon ranks
to demonstrate a willingness to obey orders.
     "By your command," droned the Cylon in his synthesized
voice.
     "Speak, Centurion," replied the Commander.
     "The Galactica bridge has been taken and Adama has been
captured alive."
     "Excellent!  Is the rest of the operation going as planned?"
     "We are experiencing resistance.  The garrison commander
requests reinforcements."
     "Very well, have the troop carriers return to the baseship
to transfer reinforcements.  Although I believe the humans will
be less resistant when they learn we have their commander.  Have
Adama and his second brought to me," ordered the Commander.
     "By your command," with that simple phrase the centurion
departed the command chambers to carry out his orders.

     "Hurry up, Boomer," urged Starbuck.  "We've got to see
what's going on."
     "Just a centon," replied Boomer, vigorously working on the
lock to the weapons arsenal.  "If we're going to conduct an
efficient guerilla resistance we're going to need supplies. . .
there!" exclaimed Boomer as he got past the electronic lock.
     Boomer opened the doors and began systematically looking for
some essentials.  First he removed an extra pair of sidearms for
the two of them and then grabbed a remote charger to re-power
their pistols when they ran out of charge.  He then ducked into
the supply room next door and removed a few ration bars that
would keep up their strength for an extended period of time.
     "Come on, Boomer," pleaded his friend as he kept a look out,
"I think I can hear some of those tin cans now."
     "All right, Starbuck, we're ready," as Boomer removed one
more item to complete their inventory.
     The two of them departed the arsenal room and no sooner did
they leave than a column of Cylon warriors marched down the
passageway.  The only sound in the area was the whine of their
electronic red eyes bouncing back and forth endlessly across
their faceplates.

     The Cylon centurion approached the group of prisoners herded
in the war room of the Galactica.  With a measured automatic
stride he closed in on the senior member of this group of humans
and addressed him.
     "You are the commander of this ship," said the centurion in
a voice betraying no emotion whatsoever or for that matter
whether the statement was a question or a fact.
     "I am," replied Adama defiantly, still feeling the pain of
what circumstances forced him to do.
     "You are his second," said the Cylon once more in that same
tone to Colonel Tigh.
     "Yes," spat the Colonel attempting no effort to hide his
disdain for the being before him.
     "The Commander has ordered you to be taken to the baseship.
Follow me," said the Cylon once more and turned his rifle towards
the two prisoners.
     Slowly, the two officers moved away from the others and
walked behind another Cylon leading the way as their interrogator
brought up the rear, the light glinting off his freshly polished
weapon.
     The rest of the bridge crew looked on in disbelief as Adama
and Tigh were taken away.  They all knew that if they were taken
to the Cylon battleship, then there was no hope of rescuing them
and ending this nightmare that was unfolding before their eyes.
Rigel looked away, the tears streaming down her cheeks as she
attended Omega's wounds.
     Omega tried to offer a reassuring smile despite the pain he
was feeling from the laser wound.  "Hey, don't worry.  I'm sure
the Commander's got something in mind.  I bet he wants to go to
that basestar and the Cylons are falling right into his trap."
     Before Rigel could reply a Cylon walked up to the two and
pointed his rifle right at them.  "Silence," it commanded and the
two dutifully obeyed.  The centurion walked away and Rigel gave
Omega an appreciative look, silently thanking him for his words.
She resumed her work on his arm and privately hoped that Omega
was right.

     "New Caprica, straight ahead," whooped Jolly before cursing
himself for showing any joy, remembering that the pain of the
battle was still in everyone's mind.
     "Thank you, Jolly," reassured Apollo, letting Jolly know
that his last remark wasn't injurious to him.
     "Attention Galactica fleet.  This is Captain Apollo.
Prepare to assume a tight orbit above the planet.  We don't know
how far the camouflage shield extends and we want to make sure
that we're not detected by the Cylons.  Apollo out."
     "Bojay," Apollo said switching his communicator to
interviper mode.  "You're in charge of the orbiting maneuver.
When your finished report to me on the surface."
     "Roger, Apollo," replied Bojay.  "Say high to Athena for
me."
     "You bet," replied Apollo, wondering about that last
comment.  Apollo and the other warriors, save Bojay's squadron,
piloted their Vipers down to the surface.

     The Cylon entourage escorted Adama and Tigh to the landing
bay of the Galactica where dozens of Cylon fighters were
refueling.  Adama was still recovering from the shock of seeing
Cylon troops marching unimposed on his ship and refueling from
his supplies.  Even though Adama felt that he had betrayed his
people, almost as worse as Baltar, he knew he had taken the
appropriate actions at the right time.  With any luck, Apollo had
obeyed his orders and had taken the fleet to a safe harbor,
probably New Caprica.  Adama and Apollo had agreed a long time
ago that if the Galactica were to ever be captured or mortally
damaged, then the squadron leader would take the fleet to safety,
at the expense of the battlestar.  The survival of the human race
was paramount to any other goal.  He only hoped that Apollo would
have the courage to sacrifice the lives of his son and his father
to make the right decision.
     Adama and Tigh were directed towards a Cylon troop carrier,
one of two that were currently in the landing bay.  More troops
were probably on their way right now to begin the process of
rounding up all of the crew who were still hiding or fighting on
the ship.  That was one advantage they had, the sheer size of the
Galactica.  It would take a considerable amount of time and
effort to secure every part of the battlestar at the cost of many
Cylons.
     That was one reason he had chosen to surrender, despite the
obvious fact of saving his grandson's life.  He hoped that he had
made this decision based on the possibility of repelling their
boarders in the future rather than preserving the life of one boy
at the cost of thousands.  Yes, he was confident that his crew
would be able to wage a successful resistance and cost the Cylons
time and resources that would hurt them when Apollo returned to
retake the ship.  The Cylon commander was doing exactly what he
wanted.  By removing Adama from the ship, the Cylons would no
longer be able to blackmail obedience for his life.  The Colonial
warriors would now have a free hand to repress their enemies and
regain their freedom.
     Adama and Tigh boarded the craft and were guarded carefully
by two Cylon centurions while another three piloted the craft out
of the landing bay and towards their mothership.  The Cylon craft
took a course directly for the massive basestar that lay a only a
few thousand metrons away from the Galactica.

     Starbuck and Boomer managed to return to the landing bay
just in time to see Adama and Tigh board the Cylon ship and lift
off towards the super basestar.
     "Are you thinking what I'm thinking," said Starbuck slyly,
already determined to go ahead with his plan with or without
Boomer's help.  Of course, the latter was only a matter of time.
Starbuck had a particular knack for manipulating Boomer to go
along with his ideas by forcing his friend to think he was the
only vestige of rationality and common sense in the duo and
therefore indispensable.
     "Sure, why not?  We'll just walk up to those Cylons and ask
them to give us a lift back to their command ship," replied
Boomer incredulously.
     "Look, Boomer, there going to need a lot more centurions to
take this ship and I'm betting that last troop carrier is getting
ready to leave.  So I suggest that we sort of get a lift over
without actually asking," suggested Starbuck.
     Boomer thought about this one for a centon.  Starbuck had
thought of some pretty crazy schemes before but this topped them
all.  Then again, they couldn't just leave the Commander and Tigh
over on that basestar at the Cylons' mercy.  Boomer took a deep
breath.  For once he had to agree that Starbuck's crazy scheme
was the best one.
     Boomer nodded his approval and the two crept along the side
of the landing bay towards the Cylon ship.  While the Cylons were
busy preparing the craft, the two warriors snuck on board.  Along
the back of the ship, they found an empty storage vault and hid
inside before the two Cylon pilots could board the transport.
The engines roared to life and with a sudden burst of
acceleration the two warriors were well on their way to an
impossible rescue mission.

     Adama walked into the Cylon command chambers with a
centurion prodding him forward from behind.  The commander of the
last battlestar stood defiantly before the tall throne and waited
for the Cylon commander to swivel around and face him.
     The chair slowly rotated as his opponent made himself known.
Adama half expected to see Baltar's disgusting face gloating at
him from above, but the sight he beheld was stranger still.  He
had heard of beings like this one from Lt. Starbuck, but had
never faced one personally.
     "Commander Adama, I presume," spoke the Cylon.
     "That is correct and whom may I say I am addressing,"
returned Adama crisply.
     "My you are a sharp one aren't you?  Of course his
exaltedness the Imperious Leader warned me of this.  You of
course have been brought here alive so that he may meet you
personally.  The Leader has been intrigued by you since the start
of your escape and looks forward to meeting you," said the
machine with an edge of sarcasm to his voice, a trait rare to
most Cylons but not to his model.  "You may address me as
Lucifer."

     Starbuck and Boomer were wedged in the compartment awfully
tight to ensure that they were not visible.
     "I hope you know what you are doing," whispered Boomer.
     "I hope so too," replied Starbuck less than confidently.
     The Cylon troop carrier continued on its journey to the
super basestar ahead.



END OF  THE FIRST DEFEAT  PART ONE



Fleeing from the Cylon tyranny, the last battlestar, Galactica,
leads a ragtag fugitive fleet on a lonely quest.  A shining
planet known as Earth.
