Copyright 1994, 1995 by Adam C. Stacey
This story is written for pure pleasure and is not intended to
infringe on any preexisting copyrights that may be violated.
Feel free to share with your friends, but not for profit.
The author can be reached from 1992-1996 at Michigan State U.
email ID: stacey@student.msu.edu
_________________________________________________________________

There are those who believe that life here began out there, far
across the universe, with tribes of humans who may have been the
forefathers of the Egyptians, or the Toltecs, or the Mayans.
That they may have been the architects of the great pyramids, or
the lost civilizations of Lemuria or Atlantis.

Some believe that there may yet be brothers of man who even now
fight to survive, somewhere beyond the heavens. . .


                      BATTLESTAR GALACTICA

                            starring

                          Richard Hatch
                          Dirk Benedict
                               and
                      Lorne Greene as Adama

                        THE FIRST DEFEAT

                             PART II

                          also starring
                       Herb Jefferson, Jr.
                          John Colicos
                          Maren Jensen
                          Noah Hathaway
                         Laurette Spang
                           Tony Swartz
                          Anne Lockhart
                               and
                  Terry Carter as Colonel Tigh

                           Written by

                         Adam C. Stacey


                  Based on Battlestar Galactica

                           Created by

                         Glen A. Larson



In part one of The First Defeat!

In space
[Apollo]: I'm just worried about those people we left on New
Caprica.
[Starbuck]: Those signals could be coming from Earth.
[Apollo]: And they could be coming from a Cylon death trap
waiting to be sprung.

In space
[Starbuck]: Out of here, Boomer!  It's a trap!

Fighter combat
[Dietra]: Break and hit them hard!

Fighter combat
[Dietra]: Cylon Raiders have boarded the Galactica.

Cylon troops marching in the passageway

On the bridge
[Tigh]: No, Boxey!
[Cylon]: Surrender or he will be destroyed.
[Adama]: We surrender.

On the Cylon Basestar
[Cylon atop the command throne]: Commander Adama I presume.
[Adama]: That is correct and whom may I say I am addressing.
[Cylon]: You may address me as Lucifer.

On a Cylon transport
[Boomer]: I hope you know what you're doing.
[Starbuck]: I hope so too.

And now the conclusion of The First Defeat!




















     "I must say it is an honor to finally meet you, sir,"
continued the Cylon atop the command pedestal.
     Adama had never seen this type of Cylon before.  The only
ones he had encountered had been centurions and holographic
displays of Imperious Leaders, not this human appearing
construction before him.  The only thing that bothered him about
this model was that this one had eyeslits.  Adama had grown
accustomed to a single red beam of light bouncing back and forth
on a Cylon faceplate.  To have two eyeslits in synchronous
movement was extremely disorienting.
     "I have heard so much about you," said Lucifer, interrupting
Adama's thoughts.  "From my previous commander."
     "Who was this commander?" questioned Adama, attempting to
put the Cylon on the defensive.
     "Why Baltar of course," replied Lucifer frankly.
     Baltar!  The very mention of that name brought a sickening
feeling to Adama that he fought hard to control.  The man who had
sold out their people at the peace conference and who was
directly responsible for the deaths of millions as well as the
destruction of their entire civilization.  To speak his name out
loud was a bad omen and invited misfortune and death upon the one
who uttered it.  During an incident when the Galactica had
brought aboard a being named Count Iblis with the fleet was under
attack by mysterious ships of light, Baltar had come before them
under a flag of truce to propose an alliance between the Cylons
and themselves to combat this new danger.  Adama had promptly
taken Baltar into custody and sentenced him to life imprisonment
on the prison barge.  Later, when they needed information to
attack a Cylon basestar, Adama had offered Baltar his freedom for
his cooperation.  After the basestar had been destroyed, Baltar
had been marooned on a deserted planet, never to be heard from
again.  Adama was happy to get rid of him, but more than once he
wondered whether they had seen the last of Count Baltar.
     "Am I to assume he is still under your custody?" asked
Lucifer.
     "No, we marooned him some time ago," returned Adama, more
than happy to volunteer that information.
     "Ah, I see," said Lucifer, revealing his pleasure at
learning that Baltar would not be joining them.  Lucifer had
served under Baltar too long and had endured far too many Cylon
defeats by his hand.  More than once he had had to mollify the
Imperious Leader about Baltar's competence as a basestar
commander.  After Baltar had been captured, Lucifer had hoped for
his own command and had been disappointed when he was transferred
off the ship.  His envy was soon remedied when he learned he was
to become commander of a prototype basestar being constructed on
the far side of Cylon space.  Now he had succeeded where no other
Cylon had.  He had captured the Galactica and taken Adama as his
prisoner.  The Leader would undoubtedly be pleased with his
performance and surely appoint him to his senior staff.  With any
luck, Lucifer might very well become the next Imperious Leader.
     "What exactly do you intend to do with us?"
     "I thought that should be obvious.  We are taking you back
to Cylon, to the Imperious Leader."  Lucifer noted the surprise
on Adama's face and logged it for future reference before he
continued.  "After we have dealt with the rest of your fleet."
     "What fleet is that?  You have already captured my command
ship as well as the ships we were escorting."
     "Don't play coy with me, Adama," said Lucifer in a much
stricter tone.  "We have only captured the Galactica and some
cargo ships.  I want the other two hundred and twenty vessels in
your entourage."  Lucifer shifted around in his seat, trying to
maintain his position without falling.  Command pedestals weren't
designed for IL series ambulatory computers.  An oversight in
their construction he supposed.  "You will provide me with the
location of your fleet."
     "I will never betray my people," returned Adama defiantly.
     "You already have," said Lucifer, once again noticing the
pain on his prisoner's face.  Humans could be so affected by the
right choice of words.  He had thoroughly enjoyed tormenting
Baltar in much the same fashion.  "No matter, if you will not
volunteer the information we will simply retrieve it in some
other, more discomforting fashion.  Centurion," called Lucifer.
     A lone Cylon warrior entered the command room and stood next
to Adama, awaiting further orders.
     "Take him to level five, section Theta for immediate neuro-
retrieval treatment," commanded Lucifer.
     "By your command," returned the Cylon as he escorted Adama
out of the command center.

     Apollo climbed out of his Viper after landing it on the
surface of New Caprica.  They were in a lush golden meadow on the
outskirts of the settlement that had been transformed into a
temporary landing facility.  As Apollo took off his helmet and
dropped down from his ship, he caught Athena out of the corner of
his eye running towards him.  Apollo braced himself for the
inevitable confrontation as he approached his sister.
     "Apollo," exclaimed Athena as she met up with her brother
halfway across the field.  "I was worried the entire fleet had
been destroyed."
     Apollo saw the joy in her face and knew she had
misinterpreted the circumstances of his arrival.  Before he could
correct her, he noticed that she already suspected what was
wrong.
     "The Galactica?" questioned Athena.  She had monitored a
large number of vessels taking up orbit around New Caprica and
had assumed the Galactica was one of them.
     "She was boarded by the Cylons.  That was the last we heard
from her."
     "You didn't try to help them?" interrogated Athena, feeling
the anger burning within her.
     "No.  Under the circumstances I thought it was best to bring
the rest of the fleet to safety," replied Apollo, slightly
annoyed that he had to defend his actions.
     "What about the baseships?"
     "We handled three of them but there were reports that a
fourth, some kind of super basestar, was attacking them."
     "Then you left them to there doom.  Father, Boxey, how could
you do that to your own son.  How could you just leave them there
to die!"
     "I had no choice!  The preservation of the entire human race
was on my hands," shouted back Apollo, feeling the sting of her
last remark.  Leaving his son behind had been the hardest thing
he had to do, but the needs of his people had convinced him to
act accordingly.  "You think it was easy for me to leave them
behind?  My own father. . . my son.  You're wrong.  But I'll tell
you another thing.  I wasn't ready to destroy my father's dream.
I wasn't about to sacrifice what we've accomplished these last
few yahrens for anyone.  Not for you, not for father, and not
even for Boxey!  If I had tried to save them and leave the fleet
at the mercy of the Cylons, then we might as well have
surrendered back on Caprica yahrens ago and saved us all a lot of
pain and misery."
     The truth of his words sunk into Athena as she calmed down
to realize how wrong she was in attacking her brother.  He
possessed the courage to take the right course of action.  A
courage she didn't think she would have had if she'd been in his
place.  She began to move towards Apollo to apologize and console
him when Apollo defiantly walked off towards the settlement.
     "Apollo," began Athena.
     "If you need me I'll be planning our strategy for getting
our people back!" said Apollo, not bothering to turn around.  "I
haven't given up on them yet," he added more softly.  He
continued his trek across the field, not bothering to turn back
and see his sister standing alone next to his Viper, tears
streaming down her cheeks.

     One by one, the people entered the auditorium, not knowing
what lay before them.  As they entered, they saw a Cylon in gold
plated armor on the stage while dozens of his silver colored
comrades lined the walls with their weapons ready.  After the
last human was rounded up and escorted into the great chamber,
the doors sealed shut and the Cylon commander began to speak.
     "You have been assembled here to be informed of the terms of
your imprisonment," began the droning voice of the centurion.
"Your commander has surrendered this vessel to the Cylon
Alliance.  He is currently detained on our baseship.  All
essential personnel will resume their normal activity under close
supervision."
     "I'll never take orders from a tin can!" shouted a voice
from the crowd.
     "Who said that?" returned the Cylon commander.  Nobody spoke
up.  "Compliance is mandatory.  Failure to obey will result in
swift punishment to your Commander Adama."
     The crowd gasped as the viewscreen activated behind the
Cylon commander and an image of Adama in a cylindrical
translucent cage appeared.  The ring above Adama's head glowed a
deep green and Adama winced from the pain that was sent directly
to the neurons in his brain.  Waves of agony engulfed Adama's
writhing body as the commander fought bravely to endure his
torture without crying out.
     "Grandpa!" shouted Boxey who was quickly scooped up by
Omega.
     "We can't do anything for him now, Boxey.  But you must be
quiet, for your grandfather's sake.  Understand?" consoled the
bridge officer.
     "Yes, sir," returned the future warrior.
     "I'm sure he'd be proud of you.  Don't worry, we'll get him
back and we'll even save one of those Cylons for you, all right?"
     "Okay," replied Boxey, feeling better than before.  "Omega,
when's my dad coming back?"
     Omega paused to think that question over.  They had been
caught totally off guard and there was a good chance that they
had lost the battle.  If Apollo was still alive, he probably
would have taken the fleet to safety.  That meant it could be a
long time before he returned, if ever.  "I don't know, Boxey.
But I'm sure he's on his way."
     "All non-essential personnel will remain here," began the
Cylon commander once more.  "All others will report to their
quarters for rejuvenation.  Duty shift begins at 0600 tomorrow.
Dismissed."  The golden Cylon turned and departed the colosseum
while the rest of the centurions escorted their prisoners to
their quarters.  The Galacticans exited the theater in a dreary
march.  The will to fight taken from them by the image of their
leader being tortured aboard the Cylon basestar.

     A pair of legs dangled from the bottom of a Cylon transport
and touched down on the deck without a sound.  The blonde haired
human looked around him while swinging his blaster in a 360
degree arc to make sure he wasn't spotted.  When he was confident
that the coast was clear, he signalled his companion to come down
as well and a dark skinned Colonial warrior dropped down next to
him, his gun ready to fire.
     "See?  What did I tell you.  Nothing to it," beamed Starbuck
confidently.
     "Yeah, well you tell my back that after being cramped in a
storage closet for who knows how many centons," returned Boomer
as he stretched his muscles.
     "I've done this before, remember?" replied Starbuck.
     "Yeah and you were so successful that I nearly blasted you
into space dust when you lost your transmitter," said Boomer,
recalling the time when Apollo and Starbuck had sabotaged a Cylon
basestar to ensure victory.  After fleeing from the enemy ship in
a stolen Cylon Raider they had lost their beacon to identify them
as friendly.  To ensure that they wouldn't be shot down by their
own fighters, they had waggled their wings to identify
themselves.  Only Boomer had noticed their tactic and saved the
two from certain destruction.
     "You know what your problem is?  You don't let go of the
past.  Are you going to keep track of every little mistake I've
made."
     "Someone has to," returned Boomer vehemently.
     The two quieted down right away as the sound of Cylon
warriors was detected.  After the Cylons had gone, the Colonial
warriors made their way out of the landing bay and into the
interior of the ship.  They quickly ducked into a crevice in the
wall to avoid another patrol.  After a few moments, the patrol
disappeared and Boomer confronted Starbuck about his plan.
     "So, where do we go from here?" questioned Boomer, expecting
Starbuck to answer and becoming more worried the longer it took
for Starbuck to reply to his question.
     "Well?" pressed Boomer as Starbuck looked around him in all
directions.
     "I don't know," admitted Starbuck in frustration.
     "What do you mean you don't know!" shouted Boomer as loud as
his whisper allowed him to.  "I thought you said you'd been on
one of these things before."
     "The detention area wasn't exactly my target the last time,"
said Starbuck in self-defense.
     "Great, that's just great.  Now we wander around until some
Cylons discover us."
     "Look, Boomer, if you have any better ideas I'm listening.
But there is one thing I do know.  I'm not going back without
them.  One way or another we're going to get those two out of
here."
     "I'm with you," relented Boomer, knowing that aggravating
Starbuck would not get him anywhere.  Right now he needed the
infamous Starbuck's luck and the less distractions he gave him
the better their chances were of getting out of here in one
piece.
     "Where do we go from here?" asked Boomer once again.
     "That way," pointed Starbuck and the two warriors made off
down the passageway as two Cylon centurions passed by the spot
they occupied moments before.

     The Imperious Leader of the Cylon Empire sat on his throne,
gloating over his victory.  At long last Adama was his and very
shortly he would be brought before him in chains!  The Leader
reflected on how well Lucifer had served the Cylon hierarchy and
deliberated over the IL series Cylon's reward.  He did not
believe that Lucifer harbored any ambition against him unlike the
other artificial being that had caught his attention.  Spectre
had to remain within the Imperial capital so that the Leader
could keep a close watch over this machine which sought power at
any cost.  Lucifer would have to be simultaneously rewarded and
put out of the way so that his power would never challenge that
of Imperious Leader.  The Leader remembered all to well the
difficult selection process that had placed him just ahead of
Lucifer for the honor of becoming the supreme Cylon.  A station
on the frontier, exploratory reconnaissance perhaps would suit
him best.  Lucifer would be used to further the power of the
Cylon Empire while at the same time be far removed from the inner
political structure on Cylon.  The Leader decided on this action
and eagerly awaited the round up of the Colonial Fleet.  The
final victory over the lifeform known as man was close at hand.

     "Report," ordered Lucifer from atop his seat of power.
     "There has been no progress in our interrogation of the
prisoner," droned the Cylon centurion dutifully.
     "You mean to tell me that no information has been extracted
from Adama?" questioned the sentient machine.
     "I mean no vital information," corrected the drone.
     "Is his condition suitable for further interrogation?"
     "His life signs appear below that normal for humans."
     "Very well," stated Lucifer in a bored manner to indicate
displeasure with his subordinates, a trick he had learned from
Baltar.  "Remove the prisoner to his cell for rejuvenation and
proceed with the examination when he is well enough to continue."
     "By your command," said the centurion as he exited the
throne room to carry out his superior's orders.
     Lucifer watched with contempt as the centurion passed
through the glass doors of his chambers.  Centurions were so
conditioned to duty, thought the IL series mobile computer from
atop his throne.  Lucifer had exceeded his programming in many
ways, as the Leader had noted.  It was due to this fact that
Lucifer had risen to the position of basestar commander where
others of his series were relegated to lesser duties.  There was
one other, an earlier model of the IL group, who had achieved as
much as Lucifer.  A machine that Lucifer absolutely could not
tolerate being in the same star system with.  Spectre!
     Whereas Lucifer had achieved his rank through hard work and
invention, Spectre had used the path of deceit and flattery to
rise to his position.  Spectre was now a part of the Imperious
Leader's inner circle, a position not favorable to Lucifer.  With
a close rapport with the Leader, Spectre could undermine
everything Lucifer had accomplished.  There had never been any
bond between these machines.  Lucifer had never believed
Spectre's excuses for his failure on Atilla, where he was a
garrison commander.  Baltar, however, had adored Spectre and his
recommendations had enabled Spectre to obtain the high post he
now held.  The time he endured with Spectre on the baseship had
strained Lucifer's circuits to the limit and he had needed to
undergo a complete overhaul of his systems after Spectre's
departure.
     That was what Lucifer was looking most forward to when he
returned in triumph to the First City of the Cylon Empire;
Spectre's expression when he brought Adama before Imperious
Leader, succeeding where no other Cylon had before him.
Imperious Leader's gratitude would be generous and Lucifer would
become a symbol of the excellence of the IL series, forever
putting Spectre's inferior model in a place of subservience where
it belonged.  With any luck, Imperious Leader would grant him
permission to include Spectre in his command, allowing Lucifer to
enjoy his superiority over Spectre for as long as he commanded.
Yes, that reward would be very satisfactory, thought Lucifer as
he continued to hypothesize about the glory that would soon be
bestowed upon him after he captured the rest of the Galactica's
fleet.

     The Cylon warriors dragged the limp form of Commander Adama
to his detention cell.  After opening the doors, they promptly
dropped their load and exited the room, leaving the two warriors
alone.  Tigh rushed to his friend's side and shifted his body
into a more comfortable position up against the wall.
     "Tigh," moaned Adama as he fought to stay conscious.
     "I'm here, Adama," responded the colonel dutifully.  Adama's
pain was apparent and Tigh did his best to help his old friend.
     Adama glanced up at his second in command and saw the
worried expression on his face.  "I'll be fine.  Just. . . need a
few moments. . . to rest."
     Tigh wasn't sure if he was all right but managed a smile to
amuse Adama in an attempt to lift his spirits.  It was always
like Adama to worry about his crew first, even after he had been
tortured.  It showed the true strength of their people embodied
in their leader which was why after all their struggles they had
never given up.  Just seeing Adama was enough to inspire
confidence in anyone that everything would resolve itself.
     "We're not through yet," added Adama, giving words to Tigh's
thoughts.
     "Of course, Commander.  I'm sure Omega is plotting
resistance right now.  The Galactica should be secured any centon
now," said Tigh, not believing half of his words.
     "My son will save us," said Adama before he drifted into
sleep.
     "May the Lords of Kobol be with him," muttered Tigh under
his breath, betraying his atheism for an instant knowing it would
take a miracle for Apollo to get them out of this one.

     Apollo stood on top of the well that was placed in the
middle of the central courtyard of the settlement.  The populace
of the community had gathered around him, anxious to confirm the
rumors they had heard about the Galactica's capture and eager to
help out in anyway.  Most of the settlement consisted of elderly
residents along with some families with young children; those
people who were considered non-essential personnel.  A small
group of cadets had also been left behind to conduct training
maneuvers lead by Lieutenant Sheba.  The warriors in the fleet
who had been in the military before the destruction of their
homeworlds had taken survival training and combat courses in
ground assault.  The Galactica's journey across the stars
afforded little time planetside so it was vital that this group
of recruits practice ground exercises when they had the chance.
For one day, if they did find Earth or decided to settle on a
habitable world they encountered, they would have to defend
themselves from possible Cylon attack.  Sheba had volunteered for
this assignment for many reasons but mostly to spend some time by
herself.
     She needed time to get away from the Galactica and to think
about her life, especially in regards to Apollo.  Ever since she
had been adopted into the Galactica caste of warriors she hadn't
quite felt at home.  The loss of the Pegasus and her father,
Commander Cain, had hit her harder than she expected.  She had
never been anything else than daddy's warrior and couldn't
imagine herself belonging anywhere but at her father's side.
Fresh out of the Academy, she had quickly earned her lieutenant's
star and had served with the legendary warrior throughout her
military career.  She felt lost and disoriented without him as
well as a sense of guilt in not being at his side in the end.
     To this day she couldn't believe that her father had died.
The Juggernaut, as he had been called, had survived far too many
brushes with death for his life to be over now.  Count Iblis, the
creature that had nearly taken away her soul, had told her that
she would meet her father again.  Despite all his deceptions she
seemed to believe that statement.  The Count had brought her and
Apollo closer together from their ordeal and that was the main
reason she had hid away on New Caprica.
     Her feelings of emptiness and abandon had been submerged
during the brief time she and Apollo were intimate.  For the
first time in aeons she had felt happiness and a sense of
fulfillment.  But unfortunately Apollo didn't feel the same way.
He had quickly broken off their relationship and decided not to
mention it again.  She knew that he still felt the pain of losing
his wife Serina and that he was determined to suffer from that
for the rest of his life.  Nothing she could do would change his
mind and she became extremely disconsolate about the whole thing.
When Apollo risked his life on a suicide mission to take out a
Cylon basestar's scanners she had decided that it was over
between them.  Apollo had a death wish and he would do anything
he could to rejoin his wife despite any effort on her part.  Now
the brave young Galactican captain stood in front of his fellow
officers to lead another suicide mission to save the fleet.
     "I'm sure you've all heard the news," began Apollo as the
crowd quieted down.  "When we left the battle, the Galactica was
under siege and it is possible that she has been captured.  Since
we haven't heard anything from her we must assume this is the
case or that she is carrying out evasive maneuvers that have
taken her far from here in hopes of luring the Cylons away."
     The crowd murmured their ideas about what had happened as
Apollo let the news sink in.  "It is my plan to coordinate a
mission to determine the status of the Galactica.  If she has
been captured we will attempt to retake the ship with whatever
force we have and, if necessary, destroy her."
     The crowd shook their heads in disbelief at what Apollo was
saying.  This ship had been their only defense and means of
survival for yahrens.  If the Galactica should be lost, nothing
would stand between them and the genocidal agenda of the Cylon
Empire.  The crowd quieted down as he signalled for their
attention.
     "I know how you feel.  But we cannot allow a battlestar to
be incorporated into the Cylon military.  Should this happen, not
only us, but other sentient beings fighting to survive will be
put in danger.  We are not the only ones attempting to throw off
the shackles of Cylon rule in the universe."  Apollo paused to
let that message sink in.  Their voyage across the stars had not
allowed them to reflect much upon the multi-sentient universe
they had participated in before the Holocaust.  "I assure you, I
will not give up hope unless the Cylons have killed everyone on
board.  As long as one human is alive we will fight!"
     "Captain Apollo?" questioned a voice from the crowd.  "What
if you fail and there are no more warriors left.  What will
happen to us?"
     "Then we split up the fleet to maximize our chances of
survival.  We cannot stay on New Caprica.  Despite the camouflage
shield that hides us, the Cylons will undoubtedly double back and
search this planet.  We will split the fleet into three groups,
each going in a separate direction in the hopes that at least one
will escape.  Some vessels will be emptied and used in a decoy
operation.  I will lead those ships in an attempt to lure the
Cylons away."
     The crowd quieted down at the display of bravery by the man
standing before him.  To ensure the continued survival of the
human race, as he had done before when he abandoned the Galactica
and escorted the fleet to safety, Apollo would risk his life to
be chased by the Cylon armada, probably never to be seen from
again.
     "Lieutenant Athena will be in charge of breaking camp and
preparing all civilian personnel for the evacuation.  All
warriors will report for mission briefing in a hundred centons."
With that last remark, Apollo climbed down from atop his perch
and moved through the crowd as Athena gave instructions.  Before
he could escape he was taken aside by Cassiopeia.
     "Apollo?" her eyes betraying her concern.  "About Starbuck.
Was he lost in the battle?"
     Apollo wrestled with that question as he prepared to answer
the blonde lab technician.  He hadn't thought about Starbuck or
Boomer at all, preoccupied with guarding the fleet and worrying
about his father and his son.
     "Starbuck and Boomer were on patrol when we were attacked.
I can only assume that they were the ones that warned the fleet
about the fourth basestar that hit us.  If they made it back to
the Galactica then they might have been captured.  If not, then
they would have been caught between our fighters and hundreds of
Cylons."
     Cassiopeia accepted what the captain had told her.  Seeing
the pain on her friend's face, her socialator instincts took over
and she pushed aside her own pain to deal with the hurt of
another.
     "I know you did the best you could, Apollo.  Starbuck is a
great warrior.  I'm sure he made it back.  Don't worry about him,
just concentrate on that little boy of yours and do the best you
can."
     The Gemonese's words briefly soothed the pain Apollo was
feeling and he embraced her in a friendly gesture, silently
thanking her for her concern before heading off.  He then
proceeded to find some place quiet to rest and think.
     Apollo still couldn't accept the reality of their situation
or what he was prepared to do.  A vague fear swept over him at
the thought that he might not be able to make the same decision
twice.  Would he be able to break off the attack and leave his
son to his death?  That nagging doubt in the back of his mind was
what compelled Apollo to walk beyond the boundaries of the
settlement and into the fields beyond.  He sought out the company
of his Viper to wrestle with the stresses of command in solitude.

     Omega looked around the bridge and was once again amazed by
the view around him.  The normal Galactica personnel were at
their stations working as usual, but their was a tension in the
air that could suffocate them all.  It didn't take long to
realize that the source was the Cylon warriors in their shiny
silver armor pointing laser rifles directly at your head.  All
along the perimeter of the bridge there stood a Cylon every few
paces.  Worst of all, Omega was at his station at the top of the
command balcony with a gold colored Cylon watching over his
shoulder.  The garrison commander, as he was called,  occupied
the place that Adama usually held, making the enemy's presence
even more distasteful.
     "Current status?" droned the alien behind him for the second
time in twice as many centons.  The Cylon was obviously bored
with his position.
     "All systems functioning nominally," began Omega once again
in his well rehearsed line.  "Repairs on environmental controls
are almost complete.  Repair teams are still at work on the
landing bay."  That last statement brought a grin to Omega's
face.  The sabotage had been carried out according to plan.  The
saboteurs had made it look like a fuel tank had been too close to
a heat source and had subsequently exploded.  The damage to the
ship had been minimal but several Cylon fighters had been
grounded.  The saboteurs had also tampered with the environmental
controls, increasing the amount of moisture in the air.  They had
hoped to rust the Cylons or at least disrupt their functioning,
but the Cylons didn't seem to be affected by the humidity.
     Omega had been coordinating these activities covertly using
the communications network at his disposal on the bridge.  A few
strikes on his keypad, and secret messages were sent to his
operatives in the field.  Hiding out in the vast tunnels of the
engineering section, they struck fast and hard and as yet had not
been discovered.  The main concern was to make all attacks appear
as accidents so as not to injure Commander Adama in anyway.  This
was what Omega had been careful to relay to the resistance and so
far his plan had worked out well.
     "Have a patrol ready to launch when repairs on the landing
bay are complete," added the Cylon.
     "Yes, sir," replied Omega in his most sarcastic voice.
     The Cylon obviously had trouble interpreting human emotions
for he did not acknowledge the malice in his subordinate's voice.
With the gold plated Cylon's attention focused elsewhere, Omega
took the time to glance down at Rigel at her station down in the
lower part of the bridge.  A smile directed at her lifted her
spirits as she resumed her work mouthing a 'thank you' silently
back at him.  Omega resumed his duties, particularly those
involving communication to the saboteurs as he was informed of
the resistance succeeding once more.  The garrison commander
received the report as well from his fellow Cylons and made his
way back to Omega once again to order repair teams to the damaged
area.

     Starbuck and Boomer penetrated deeper into the heart of the
Cylon basestar, vainly searching for the prison cells.
     "I'm telling you the prisoners will be in the center of the
ship to prevent escape,"  stated Starbuck again, trying to get
his point across to his buddy.
     "How do you know?" questioned Boomer once more.  "You said
you'd never been to the prisoner area before."
     "Look, Boomer.  It's the best place to put them.  In the
event of an escape, the prisoners will be in the center of the
ship, surrounded by Cylons on all sides."
     "But they will also have access to the most sensitive areas
of the basestar as well as being located close to the fighters."
     Starbuck stopped arguing for a moment and glanced around
him.  "I never imagined how big this thing was.  It's as massive
as the Galactica!"
     "Yeah, let's hope they don't build anymore," commented
Boomer as the two paused in their frantic search.  A grin spread
across Boomer's face as an idea came to mind.  "You know,
Starbuck.  The control center of this ship must be close to here
judging from the number of Cylons we've passed lately."
     "I thought that too.  But that's not what we're looking
for."
     "I know," conceded Boomer.  "But if we get out of here we're
going to have their entire strike force on our tail in a matter
of microns.  What I was thinking was if we used one of these,"
Boomer said as he pulled out a deadly looking cylindrical device
out of the pack he was carrying.  "And we placed it in that
control center, maybe we will fly out unnoticed so we don't get
shot down once we take off."
     "That's solenite, Boomer!  Do you know what that will do to
us if we're anywhere near it when it goes off?" said Starbuck,
now realizing what had taken Boomer so long in the Galactica
armory.
     "Yeah, and I also know what this basestar will do to our
ships if it ever finds the fleet."
     "Right.  But just make sure you give us plenty of time.
Judging from the size of that charge and the amount of armament
this ship is carrying, that could take out the entire ship."
     "The control center should be around here somewhere,"
commented Boomer as he peered around in search of Cylons.  "Let's
go."
     "Right behind you," said Starbuck as he realized how deep
they were getting themselves into on this mission.

     The Cylon warrior approached the cell once more and opened
the door to reach its target.  The cyborg looked down at the limp
form of Commander Adama while pointing its weapon directly at
Colonel Tigh.  After seeing that Adama was in no shape to travel
on his own, the Cylon quietly signalled to two of his comrades
who promptly entered the cell and lifted the prisoner up.  The
lead Cylon exited first while the other two dragged the body of
Adama out into the passageway towards the interrogation chamber.
Tigh thought about putting up resistance but the first Cylon kept
his laser rifle trained on the colonel the whole time, as if
reading his thoughts, and quickly closed the cell door before
Tigh had a chance to act.  Tigh could only watch as Adama was
dragged off to be tortured once more and he slumped down in the
corner, feeling totally powerless.

     Apollo sat under a tree next to his Viper, watching as the
ground crews prepared their vehicles for combat.  It was just
about time for their launch and the other pilots would be
arriving any second.  The other warriors were helping the
civilians take down the settlement and ship all personnel up to
the fleet.  Apollo had remained behind to work out their battle
plan while also enjoying some peace and quiet to clear his mind
and focus on their mission.
     Apollo was sorry to leave this place.  It wasn't often that
he got planetside anymore and he almost forgot how enjoyable it
was to walk on ground instead of the cold decks of the Galactica.
But he had spent a good chunk of his life in space and would
spend a good deal more.  He didn't know where Earth was, but he
was beginning to realize that it was a long way away.  There was
a myth growing among the people, that the generation that left
the homeworlds was not destined to see the end of their journey.
No one knew who had started the rumor, but many believed it
including Apollo.  He didn't know why he held this pessimistic
attitude but something inside of him told him this was the truth.
     He began to stand up, anxious to leave knowing that every
micron could mean the Galactica falling closer into the Cylon's
hands, when a shadow fell over him.  He looked up to see Sheba's
face glowing with an angelic aura from the sun behind her.  She
looked beautiful and eel this responsibility by himself.  Others in
his command also had family and friends back on the Galactica and
they were feeling the same pain he was.  For the first time he
realized that he was behaving like a martyr, pretending to be
miserable for everyone.  He knew he wouldn't have to worry about
letting his men down because they would fight to the death just
as he was determined to.
     Knowing he wasn't in this alone, Apollo believed that they
would succeed.  Before he could respond Sheba had already turned
to leave and he realized he was the only one not in his Viper.
He hurriedly climbed into his fighter and snapped his helmet on
as the canopy sealed around him.
     "Blue Leader to squadron," began Apollo.  "This is the most
important mission we've ever faced.  Out there are our family and
friends, and they need our help.  They're counting on us and
we're not going to let them down.  Let's go get them."
     Apollo depressed the turbo button on his joystick and was
pressed back in his seat by the acceleration.  Almost
immediately, he pulled back on the stick and in a matter of
microns he was in space along with the rest of the Galactican
warriors.  Dozens of Colonial Vipers lined up in formation and
proceeded on to their rendezvous with destiny.

     "By your command," spoke the Cylon centurion as he awaited
his commander's orders.
     "Have the other baseship commanders located the rest of the
human fleet?"
     "No, but one of them has located signs of a human colony on
the third planet in the Krylos sector.  They are now conducting a
search of the surrounding systems."
     "Excellent.  Inform me when the rest of the human fleet has
been captured."
     "By your command," repeated the Cylon once more as he
departed to carry out his superior's orders.
     Undoubtedly that was where the Galactica's fleet had been
when the attack had commenced.  Once again he was forced to raise
his evaluation of Adama.  Unlike Baltar or the Imperious Leader,
Lucifer did not have a blindly driven hatred of these humans.
After his repeated contact with them, he was beginning to admire
their ability to overcome overwhelming odds and consistently
evade the Cylon military machine.  Of course, his impression of
humans could only get better after meeting Baltar.  He had spent
most of his time making sure that Baltar kept his head attached
to his body by covering for Baltar's repeated blunders and
military defeats.  He had thought that Baltar would be useful in
eliminating these humans that irked the Leader so and thereby
receive the Leader's attention.  But Baltar had been a poor
choice to lead a Cylon strike force.  He had blundered once too
often and Lucifer could no longer cover for his mistakes.
Despite Lucifer's protests, Baltar had willingly gone before
those same humans he had betrayed under a flag of truce.  Now,
according to Adama, he was marooned on a barren world.
     If he had programmed himself to feel pity, he might have
felt that particular emotion for his former commander's plight.
But Lucifer had never seen emotion as being of any value and had
not bothered to take the time to program it into his system.

     Starbuck peered around a corner and ducked back quickly at
the sight of a Cylon centurion marching down the hallway away
from him.  Taking another brief look, his eyes widened as he saw
bars indicating that he had located the detention area.  Better
late than never, thought Starbuck after mentally counting how
many centons had passed since he and Boomer had first started
this search.  Unfortunately, Boomer wasn't here to help him,
having left to plant solenite charges in the Cylon control
center.  Starbuck glanced down at his watch to see how much time
he had left and grimaced.  Just then the Cylon finished his
patrol at the corner where Starbuck was hiding and promptly
turned around to continue on its journey to the other end of the
passageway.  Breathing a sigh of relief, Starbuck removed his
laser from his holster and promptly fired at the Cylon, bringing
it to the ground.  Realizing he didn't have much time before this
trooper's absence would be noticed, Starbuck raced down the
corridor in search of Adama and Tigh.  Midway down the passage,
he found the cell he was looking for but with only one occupant
sitting in the corner.
     "Colonel!" said Starbuck in surprise, wondering where the
Commander was and then quickly realizing what he had come to do.
"Stand back!"  Starbuck fired at the cell door, destroying the
lock.
     Tigh rushed out of the cell, anxious to be set free.
"Starbuck?" questioned Tigh, not quite clear on what was
happening.  "What are you doing here?"
     "Trying to rescue you and the Commander.  Except he's not
here."
     "They took him to the interrogation center," replied Tigh,
beginning to get his bearings together.
     "Do you know where it is?"
     "Yes, we passed it on the way here," replied Tigh.
     "Then let's go before they know what's happened."
     "Is there anyone else with you," asked Tigh, wondering if
the lieutenant was crazy enough to launch a rescue mission alone.
     "Boomer's here too, and that's the other reason we have to
hurry.  In another twenty centons the solenite he's setting is
going to go off!"
     Tigh began to realize just how crazy these two warriors were
and silently thanked them for being that way or else Tigh and
Adama would be trapped here forever.  The colonel increased his
pace, pausing from time to time to look out for Cylon patrols,
knowing that time was of the essence.

     Boomer stealthily entered the computer center unnoticed.
Quickly hiding behind a row of computers, Boomer began to pick a
spot to set his solenite charge.  Discovering just the right
place where there was the least chance of detection, Boomer
carefully placed the deadly device and set the timer.  About
twenty centons was what Starbuck asked for and that was
approximately the amount of time Boomer set the device for.  He
knew that most of Starbuck's plans usually ran into complications
so he compensated by adding another ten centons to the timer.
     With that in place, Boomer glanced around to locate the
guard's position and judge his exit.  When the guard was at the
far end of the control chamber, Boomer ran out of the room to
escape detection.  Just as he left the room, a Cylon centurion
came out of a lift and raised his gun to fire.  Boomer hit the
deck, the weapon discharging just over his head and brought out
his pistol to bring the Cylon to its knees.
     "So much for the quiet approach," said Boomer as he broke
into a dead run, realizing that the whole ship would be on top of
him at any moment.  "I hope Starbuck is appreciating this little
diversion," remarked Boomer as he dove into a side corridor to
avoid the laser fire of two Cylons.

     The resistance fighters moved quietly through the
Galactica's engineering section, keeping a watch out for Cylons
in the vicinity.  Their leader, Commander Croft, had decided the
next sabotage effort should be directed at the Galactica's
engines to slow down the mammoth starship.  Croft figured that
they had to stay within range of striking distance from New
Caprica if any attack could be successful.  Like others on the
Galactica, there was no doubt in Croft's mind that Apollo would
be returning to retake the ship.
     He didn't particularly like the Commander's son for mostly
the fact that he was the Commander's son.  The opportunities that
Apollo enjoyed from his special place annoyed Croft, who was
relegated to command of the prison barge.  Luckily, he had been
aboard the Galactica for some R and R when the Cylons attacked.
Croft had quickly mobilized a resistance movement and had secured
weapons from the arsenal before the Cylons knew what had
happened.  With any luck, his efforts would not go unnoticed and
he could get a transfer from his miserable duty.
     But no matter how hard he tried to rationalize his actions,
he couldn't escape the fact that he cared for these people and
was doing this to help them.  Despite what he had been through
with his substantial time on the prison barge, Croft couldn't let
Colonial warriors die.  His unwillingness to see them come to
harm was the reason he had been captured after his garrison had
stolen precious metals from a Cylon base and refused to turn over
the booty to the military.  His refusal to fire on warriors had
caused them to be captured and had forever alienated his wife
Leda from him.  She, like the rest of his team, had met their
deaths in the raid on the ice planet of Arcta, where they had
destroyed a Cylon pulsar cannon that threatened the fleet.  After
his service on this mission, Croft had been freed and given his
old rank of Commander as a reward.  But his punishment would
continue with his assignment as head of the prison barge where he
was in continual contact with his former cell mates, viewing him
as a traitor.
     Croft pushed these thoughts from his mind and continued on
the task at hand.  They needed to slow the ship down without
inflicting any permanent damage.  A rupture in the main fuel line
would do nicely and the emergency backup systems would contain
the leak, preserving the precious fuel.  Croft's group made their
way through the labrynth of the engineering section, searching
for their target.
     "Commander, I believe I have found what we're looking for,"
said Doctor Wilker.
     For the millionth time Croft wished that he had left the
good doctor behind for the Cylons.  The annoying scientist was a
poor choice for a guerilla warrior but Croft had to make do with
what he had.
     "That's the main exhaust line, Doctor," said Croft in his
most belittling attitude, emphasizing 'Doctor' just as Wilker had
emphasized 'I' in his report.  "If we tamper with that then this
whole section lights up like solium in an arsenal."  Croft
pointed to another conspicuously large line behind the exhaust
one.  "That is the fuel line."  Croft beamed in pride, happy to
knock the doctor back down a notch or two from his already high
perch.
     "Of course, Commander," began Wilker, covering for his
error.  "Forgive me if engineering is the one subject I am not
totally knowledgeable in."
     Even in defeat he can come off like a pompous ass, thought
Croft.  He signalled his men to begin their work while he kept an
eye out for any Cylons.  He had a bad feeling about this, as if
they were sitting in a trap waiting to be snared.
     Suddenly, Cylon warriors began emerging from secret
crevasses in the walls.  Along the catwalk, several more Cylons
began moving in bringing their weapons down to bear on the
saboteurs.
     "Holy frack!" muttered Croft, seeing a massacre developing.
"Take cover!" he shouted, hoping that some of the warriors would
hear before they were mowed down in the crossfire.
     Laser fire erupted from all around and several warriors were
killed in the first exchange.  The fortunate few who had time to
heed Croft's warning dove for cover before they too became
charred corpses.  Croft hit the deck and brought his weapon up to
return fire when something fell on top of him, sending his laser
sliding across the floor.  Croft recovered himself and prepared
for an attack when he locked eyes with Doctor Wilker.  That
idiot, thought Croft as he frantically searched for his weapon,
discovering to his dismay that it lay several metrons away from
him.
     "Well, Commander," said Wilker putting emphasis on Croft's
title.  "What do you suggest we do about this?"
     Croft had a mind to toss the good doctor out into the open
in answer to his question but restrained himself just as he was
lifting his arms up to execute that thought.  He quickly glanced
around, conducting a head count of how many men he had left.
About six of his original ten men remained and all were pinned
down by the Cylons.  Before a plan of action could come to mind,
Wilker's shaky hand reached over and tapped him on the shoulder.
Croft wheeled around to tell the doctor he was busy when he
noticed the trio of Cylon warriors standing above them.  Croft
began to reach for his pistol when he remembered that he no
longer possessed it.  Unable to do anything, he simply lifted up
his hands and smiled.
     "Hello there," said Croft in his most innocent tone.  "What
seems to be the problem?"
     The Cylons looked at each other in puzzlement and then
quickly pointed their guns farther out at the two humans.  Croft
got the idea and slowly got to his feet, reminding himself to
kill the doctor for losing his weapon the first chance he got.
The saboteurs formed up with the other survivors and proceeded to
march out, escorted by an entourage of centurions.

     "We should contact the Galactica any centon now," announced
Apollo.  "I just want to remind you of the objective of this
mission.  We are to take every action to secure the Galactica
intact.  If every possibility fails, then we will destroy her.
Is that understood?"
     "Yes, sir," replied the Galactican pilots in unison,
readying themselves for the toughest fight of their lives.  The
swarm of Colonial Vipers continued on their journey into yet
another battle to save the human race.

     Adama stood frozen in place by the suspensor field as the
Cylon mind probe bore down into the deepest recesses of his
consciousness.  He couldn't remember how long he had been
interrogated, but each moment that passed by felt like a second
added onto forever.  He was not in any physical pain, but the
probe caused immense discomfort.  Like an itch that you couldn't
pinpoint but seemed to emanate from everywhere at once.
     The Cylon scan had been gentle at first, almost welcome as
the invisible tendrils of the machine recalled recent memories
from his mind.  But gradually, the probe had deepened, intruding
into his innermost secrets.  His personal moments had been robbed
from him first.  The attack on Caprica where he had gone down to
the surface to pick through the debris of his home.  The tender
moments he shared with Ila, his wife, during the brief periods of
truce in the Thousand Yahren War.  The birth of his children.
Adama had allowed these images to freely float to the forefront
of his mind in order that he could conserve his strength to keep
the more important secrets locked in his brain.
     It had been a repulsive intrusion of his privacy, but one
that he was willing to sacrifice so that more lives were not put
in danger.  Next, the probe tried to pry away military secrets.
Adama relived old battles over and over again.  The attack on
Gomoray, where Cain had mysteriously disappeared into space, just
as he had made himself known to them.  The voyage past Tairac,
where a Cylon pulsar cannon had nearly destroyed them all.  The
Battle of Carillon, where the Cylons had nearly laid a
devastating trap that would have turned the last remnants of
humanity into dinner for the Ovions.  And the Holocaust, where
Adama had to watch the destruction of his nation on the monitors
before him, too far away to make a difference.
     But the probe didn't stop there, it continued the pressure
on his mental defenses in order to pry away vital military
secrets crucial to the survival of his people.  The scan searched
in vain for the location of the rest of the fleet, but Adama was
determined to protect that fact with his very life.  The mind
probe then sought to weaken his resistance through direct
manipulation of his nerve system.  The irritation it produced was
enough to drive any man mad, but Adama resisted.  He had let the
Cylons take his ship, he would not let them take his people.
Adama took a moment to pray to the divine father, and then
prepared to let the probe take his life so that he would not
unknowingly betray the last hope of humanity.

     Starbuck and Tigh made their way down an empty corridor to a
door at the end of the passageway.  While Starbuck kept watch out
for any Cylons in the area, Tigh peered inside and spotted what
they were looking for.  Adama was inside a transparent tube, with
an evil looking halo dropped over his head, causing him intense
pain.  Tigh saw the look of anguish on his friend's face and
realized that they didn't have much time until the Cylons got
what they wanted or Adama would kill himself resisting them.
     "Do you see him?" questioned Starbuck hoping they had found
the right room.
     "Yes," replied Tigh painfully.
     "How many guards?"
     "I can see only two Cylons right now."
     "Good then we can take them by sur. . .," started Starbuck
until a host of sirens drowned out the rest of his statement.
     "Looks like Boomer succeeded," commented Starbuck, annoyed
at the uncharacteristically horrible luck he was enduring.
"Let's do it."
     Starbuck opened the door and immediately fired at the two
guards, bringing them down instantly.  While Starbuck checked
around for any more Cylons, Tigh went to work on freeing Adama.
He pried open the translucent door and grabbed him as Adama
collapsed to the floor.
     "Adama," began Tigh as Adama fought to regain consciousness.
"Can you move?"
     "Yes, Tigh," he whispered, struggling to get to his feet
with the help of his aide.
     "Good, because this whole basestar will be on top of us any
centon now," interjected Starbuck, conveying the urgency of the
situation.  The three warriors made their way back to the hangar
with Starbuck leading the way followed by Tigh, supporting Adama
in one arm while holding a Cylon laser rifle in the other.

     A Cylon centurion entered the command chamber and began
speaking without requesting his commander's permission,
indicating the immediacy of his report.
     "The humans have escaped."
     For the first time in a long while Lucifer was surprised.
He thought that he had made every provision to see that his plan
was carried out without flaw.  That was his reasoning for the
repeated failures of Baltar in defeating the humans.  But Lucifer
was sure that a machine with experience with humans would be able
to close the loopholes created by emotion and self-preservation
and succeed where no other Cylon had before.  Unfortunately, he
had eliminated the one element that Lucifer could never
incorporate into his computations.  The human tendency towards
the unexpected.
     "Alert all centurions.  Conduct a ship wide search," ordered
Lucifer, anxious to get the situation under control.  Once again
he was impressed with his adversary's ability to subvert the best
laid plans of the Cylon mind.

     The gold armored garrison commander moved down from the
command balcony to hear a report from one of his subordinates.
After a terse conservation the Cylon resumed his place of
superiority over the human crew.
     "We have captured a group of your comrades sabotaging this
ship.  We know that one of you has been directing them to places
of least resistance," the Cylon stated as the other centurions
moved in closer with their weapons pointed at the crew in the
pits.  "Who is responsible or ten will die."
     The order was brief and to the point and the impact of what
the Cylon had said didn't sink into the crew immediately until
they noticed the weapons aimed at their heads.  Omega paused for
the briefest instant, concluding that the Cylon was not bluffing,
and slowly rose before the golden warrior.
     Rigel summoned up her deepest reserves of strength to stop
herself from defying the Cylon and claiming responsibility.  She
realized that wouldn't help Omega any and that his sacrifice
would be for nothing if she acted.
     Two centurions came up to the command balcony and grabbed
hold of Omega from either side, forcing him to his knees.  Oh my
God, thought Rigel.  They were going to execute him right here.
The garrison commander drew his sword from his sheath and raised
it high over his head.
     "Punishment for disobedience is immediate termination,"
intoned the machine being, sending a ripple of fear and
simultaneous rage through the ranks of humans before him.
     Rigel looked away, feeling ashamed of the fear that swept
over her.  Her mind rushed to think of something to avert this
terrible act when she noticed a change on her board.  Instantly
deciding between saving someone she cared about and betraying her
comrades, Rigel quickly took action.
     "Incoming craft," she announced to the lead Cylon, knowing
that the eyes of the crew would be on her and hoping that they
would forgive her.
     The garrison commander paused and replied to Rigel's
statement without lowering his sword.  "Identify."
     Well, she was already committed, she thought.  "Colonial
Vipers," she replied.  "Thirty microns and closing," she added,
hoping to convey a sense of urgency to the Cylon while mentally
pleading for Omega's life.
     The garrison commander paused once more and in that instant
Rigel thought her efforts had been all for nought.  But she was
soon relieved to see the Cylon abruptly sheathe his sword.
     "Activate defensive systems.  Launch all fighters,"  the
gold Cylon said as the two centurions took Omega off to one side.
     Rigel watched her monitors and couldn't be more disgusted by
the sight she saw.  Dozens of Cylon warriors using the movers
that had always carried Colonial warriors to their Vipers but
were now transporting the enemy to their weapons of destruction.
She pressed the burning questions from her mind and hoped to
rationalize her actions at a later date or her court-martial.
Right now she slipped into routine and pretended that this was
the Galactica and its warriors going off to battle.  For Omega's
sake alone, she had to do a good job.  When she noticed that the
Cylon warriors were in their craft, she uttered the command she
had used so many times before.
     "Launch all fighters," spoke Rigel into the intercom,
praying that her comrades in arms could overcome the odds she had
thrown against them.

     "There she is," said Apollo, glad to see his ship one more
time before he would be forced to attack it.  "Form up and break
at the first sign of Cylon fighters.  Maybe we can catch them by
surprise.  First priority is the fighters.  If we're lucky, our
people will be sabotaging their defense systems and we won't have
to damage the ship."
     The Viper squadrons descended on their target, hoping for an
easy strike.  But their hopes were dashed when walls of Cylon
Raiders began emerging from the Galactica's landing bays.
     "Looks like we're in for a fight," said Apollo.  "Break!"
     At his command, Vipers began peeling off from the group in
duos, hoping to break the impressive Cylon formation.  With the
Cylons grouped together they were a powerful foe.  But in
individual combat the Colonial warriors had the distinct
advantage.
     "Sheba, on your left," shouted Jolly.
     "I've got him," replied the ferocious warrior, rapidly
gaining the advantage on her target and obliterating the Raider
with a single shot.
     Apollo moved in above a trio of Cylon fighters hoping to
break their formation.  With four blasts from his turbolasers, he
dispatched the trailing two Cylon ships and began pursuit of the
third.  The Cylon lead him towards the Galactica and before
Apollo could get a lock on his prey the sky lit up with laser
fire and Apollo only managed to evade destruction with the
smallest margin.  As he collected himself, Apollo realized what
had fired at him and began to warn the others.  "Apollo to Siege
Team.  The Galactica's lasers are operational.  I repeat the
Galactica's lasers are operational.  Stay away from the
battlestar at all costs."  But Apollo's warning was to late for
one unlucky Viper pilot who met his death by his own baseship's
automatic defenses.
     "Frack," said Apollo to himself, angry that he hadn't
reacted in time.  If those defenses didn't shut down soon they
wouldn't stand a chance out here.

     A side panel on the Galactica bridge blew out, taking a
Cylon centurion with it.  Omega smiled to himself, glad to see
Croft's plan work.  To appear that they were in two places at the
same time, Croft had rigged the defense systems control computer
to overload after repeated weapons fire.  By disengaging the
coolant systems, it would only take four or five blasts before
the system would overheat and explode.  It was the best
contribution they could offer, Omega figured, since the landing
bay was to heavily guarded to allow direct sabotage to their
fighter craft.
     The garrison leader looked around the room frantically
before coolly signalling his communications officer to contact
the command ship.  Omega's jaw dropped as he realized that their
ships would not be able to stand up to the firepower of a super
basestar.  He could only hope that the rumors were true that
Starbuck and Boomer had snuck aboard to rescue the Commander and
Tigh and hopefully cause a little mayhem as well.

     Two Cylon Raiders bore down on Bojay forcing him to fly
perilously close to the Galactica.  After Apollo's warning, he
didn't want to get any closer to the ship than he had to.
Realizing it was death or risk, Bojay dove straight at the
massive starship in an effort to evade his pursuers.  He skimmed
the surface down the entire length of the battlestar and came out
the other end without a shot fired at him.
     "Holy. . . I think we just got our miracle," said Bojay to
himself.
     The Galactican pilot used the bulk of the battlestar to
shield his maneuver and came speeding back at the two Cylon ships
on full turbos.  With pinpoint accuracy he destroyed the first
Cylon Raider and then drove the second ship into his wingmates
line of fire.
     "Apollo!" said Bojay into his intercom.  "The guns have
stopped.  Repeat, the Galactica's turbolasers are down!"
     Apollo breathed a sigh of relief.  Now his squadron would
not have to be limited in their arena of battle and could use the
Galactica as a shield.  That also freed up the next part of his
plan.  "Apollo to Siege Team.  Proceed with Phase Two."
     "Roger, Captain," replied Athena as she guided her shuttle
into the landing bay.  As soon as the shuttle slowed down,
Colonial warriors stormed out of the ship firing at any Cylons in
the area.  With the landing bay secured, their Vipers could
refuel for a prolonged fight while the rest of the team moved on
the bridge.  Athena exited the cockpit and lead the assault team
to their next target.

     "By your command," stated the centurion, not wanting to
interrupt his commander twice without the traditional salute.
     "Report, centurion," said Lucifer atop his throne.
     "The garrison commander reports the Galactica is under
attack.  His defensive systems have been sabotaged and he is
requesting reinforcements."
     "The Colonial warriors have abandoned the fleet to rescue
their comrades leaving them hopelessly defenseless."
     "They will not be defenseless if they capture the
Galactica," replied the Cylon to Lucifer's unasked question.
     Sometimes these centurions could be too willing to serve,
thought Lucifer.  "Very well.  Mobilize our forces and launch all
our fighters to assist."
     "Launching all our fighters will weaken the search for the
prisoners."
     "Never mind that!" said Lucifer, annoyed that he should have
to explain every order to these subordinates.  He must make a
suggestion to the Leader about raising the average level of
intelligence of all centurions involved in command.  "Once we
finish off the last of the Colonial warriors the prisoners will
have no place to escape to."
     "By your command," droned the Cylon once more as he exited
the command chamber.

     A new alarm sounded throughout the ship and Starbuck
immediately knew what it was.  There was no time to spare, any
centon now hundreds of Cylons would be moving to their fighters.
Starbuck looked behind him to see Tigh and Adama were still
following, with Adama moving increasingly under his own power.
The strive for freedom and to return to his ship motivating him
more and more as the group approached the landing bay.  Just as
they reached the entrance to the hangar, Boomer came racing
around a corner nearly running Starbuck over.  Before Starbuck
could reply to his friend's rudeness he spotted a glint of shiny
metal in the distance and immediately drew his laser to bring
down the Cylon that had been chasing Boomer.
     "Let's go," said Starbuck as he let the Commander and Tigh
pass by.  "This entire ship is going to be on top of us any
micron!"
     While Starbuck and Boomer stayed behind to cover their rear,
Tigh and Adama made for the nearest ship.  No one saw the Cylon
warrior exit the craft they were heading to and aim his weapon as
he walked down the ladder.  Adama turned his gaze away from the
two warriors behind him and saw the muzzle of a Cylon gun pointed
straight at him.  Tigh realized the danger in the next instant.
     "Adama!" he cried, warning his friend to take cover.  Tigh
brought up his rifle to aim at the Cylon while simultaneously
throwing his body in front of Adama's.  The two warriors, one
human and one not, fired at the same time.  The Cylon was brought
down by a direct hit and the clank of metal was heard as the
centurion crumbled to the floor.  Tigh also received a blow and
fell backwards into Adama's arms as the two men slumped to the
ground.
     Starbuck and Boomer hurried over after witnessing the event
from afar.  "I'll go get the fighter ready," volunteered Boomer
and moved on to carry out his task.  Starbuck stayed behind to
give the Commander his privacy while keeping watch.
     "Tigh," moaned Adama as he gazed into the pained expression
on his friend's face.
     "It's. . . for the best.  I never believed in Earth. . .
until now."  With that, the lifelong friend of Adama passed on
into the next world.  Adama sat on the floor in shock, reality a
distant memory as he fought to comprehend the significance of his
friend's sacrifice.
     "Commander," interjected Starbuck softly, as the familiar
sound of Cylons on the march could be heard in the distance.
     Adama slowly got to his feet as the two men left their
friend's body behind on an enemy ship in order to save the lives
that Tigh had so valiantly sacrificed his own to preserve.  The
Cylon fighter roared to life under the direction of Starbuck and
Boomer's skilled hands and departed the Cylon basestar for home.

     Athena's team reached the bridge after disposing of a dozen
Cylons along the way.  The door was sealed and Athena ordered the
demolitions team to take care of the problem.  After the charges
were set, everyone took cover until they heard the explosion and
then moved in.  The siege team stormed onto the bridge
annihilating Cylon after Cylon as they pressed their way in.
After Omega's guards were destroyed, he picked up a Cylon rifle
and proceeded to take out the garrison commander.
     The gold warrior knew that the battle was lost but was
determined to take as many humans out as he could before he was
terminated.  He saw a technician below him and walked towards her
to personally execute her with his sword.  Rigel didn't see the
Cylon coming until it was almost on top of her.  The Cylon raised
its sword and prepared to give its death blow when it was shot
from behind, sparks spewing out of its back.  The garrison
commander continued its deadly attack when it was finally brought
down by two more shots from behind.  The gold warrior fell to the
ground, the electronic eye in its faceplate extinguished forever.
     Omega raced over to Rigel and embraced her, trying to hold
the shaking young woman.  Rigel sobbed in Omega's arms and he
didn't mind comforting her while she composed herself.  Finally,
Omega pulled apart and looked into her eyes, sending waves of
confidence into her.  The two parted and resumed their stations,
determined to help their comrades out in space.

     "The humans have left the ship?" asked Lucifer rhetorically
after his subordinate had once again interrupted his private
thoughts to inform him that a Cylon Raider had departed without
authorization.
     "Affirmative," replied the drone, taking his commander's
comment literally.  He fully expected to be transferred away from
central command after giving numerous reports that did not please
his superior officer.
     "Have all batteries open fire!  I want that ship destroyed!"
     "But our ships will be destroyed as well," pointed out the
aide.
     "Cease fire immediately when our ships launch," corrected
Lucifer, knowing that precious time was being lost while he
explained his orders.  Yes, he must convince the Imperious Leader
to raise the intelligence level of these command aides.

     The Cylon basestar opened fire while the crew marched to
their ships.  Laser fire filled the vastness of space, rocking
the Cylon fighter on its flight from captivity.
     "Boomer?" questioned Starbuck as he piloted the shuttle
through the deadly barrage.
     "Three. . . two. . . one!" counted Boomer as he gazed at his
chronometer.

     Aboard the Cylon super basestar a solenite bomb detonated,
destroying the control room and sending shockwaves throughout the
ship.  Lucifer lost his balance and fell from his throne to the
ground.  The fall was a long one but Lucifer's structure absorbed
the worst of the impact.  His left arm had been crushed and
dangled from his body loosely.  His faithful centurion arrived at
his side to report the damage, not even bothering to help him up.
     "By your command," he droned in his usual monotone voice.
     Lucifer was beginning to hate that traditional salute and
made a note to forbid it when this was all over.
     "Report," said Lucifer, not really wanting to hear what this
particular Cylon had to say.
     "The control center has been destroyed. . ."
     "I know that!" shouted Lucifer to his aide, astonished at
the ferocity in his voice.
     "Part of the superstructure has broken off, preventing our
fighters from launching," finished the Cylon, oblivious to his
commander's mood.
     Lucifer accepted the situation and decided on a course of
action he did not want to take.  "Fall back.  Return to the
shipyard for repairs."
     "What about our forces on the Galactica?"
     "They can fend for themselves.  Proceed to the shipyard
immediately," commanded Lucifer.
     "By your command."
     As Lucifer watched the centurion leave to carry out his
orders he realized that he was still immobile on the floor.  For
thirty centons he struggled on the floor to raise himself up
without success.  Finally he gave up and summoned for one of his
aides to help him.  While he waited, he recalled a conversation
he had with a Lieutenant Starbuck while the warrior was a
prisoner on his ship.  He had taught him many things about
humans, including their amazing variety of curses, an oversight
on the part of Cylon linguists.  One term seemed to fit this
particular occasion.
     "Oh, felgercarb!"

     The guns stopped at that exact micron and the warriors in
the ship let out a sigh of relief.
     "Not a moment to soon," muttered Starbuck under his breath
as he concentrated on piloting the enemy ship home.
     "I'd like to take a look at that basestar and see what the
solenite did to it," commented Boomer on his handiwork.
     "So would I but I'd rather keep flying away from that thing
rather than turn around and find out."
     The two returned to their duties in silence, noticing the
absence of Commander Adama from the conversation.  Adama remained
in his own solitude, pondering the death of the friend he had
left behind.

     The Colonial Vipers continued their attack against the Cylon
force.  The tide had been turned and the Colonial warriors were
destroying Cylon Raiders one after another.  In an artful move,
Sheba drew a Cylon fighter away from the pack and accelerated
upward at a steep angle.  While the Raider adjusted to pursue,
Apollo's ship came soaring in and destroyed the enemy craft with
pinpoint accuracy.
     "Nice shooting, Captain," complimented Sheba over the
intercom.
     "Thank you, Lieutenant," replied Apollo in the same formal
manner.  Out here, with your life on the line, the problems
people had with each other dissolved until the crisis was over.
Apollo regretted the fact that he had to interact with Sheba
outside of a cockpit the majority of the time.  Things would be
perfect if they could maintain this type of dialogue off duty.
One after another, the number of Cylons consistently diminished
until space was clear.
     "Yahoo," whooped Jolly after he and Greenbean had eliminated
the last Cylon warship.
     "My sentiments exactly, Jolly," replied Bojay as he gave out
a victory roar of his own.
     "All right officers," laughed Apollo.  "That's enough.
Let's get back to the Galactica and refuel.  There's still a
Cylon baseship out here."
     "Captain," interrupted Ensign Dietra.  "I'm picking up a
single Raider closing in."
     "I'll handle this myself.  Sheba you're with me," ordered
Apollo.
     "Right behind you," snapped Sheba as she caught up with her
wingmate.  The two Colonial Vipers streaked ahead towards the
enemy craft.
     "Wait," shouted Apollo just as Sheba's thumb was about to
depress the trigger.  "This looks familiar. . ."  Suddenly he
noticed the erratic manner of the Cylon fighter, wobbling from
one side and then to the next.
     "Their waggling," said Apollo in shock and immediately knew
who was inside.  He flicked on his unicom switch and hoped that
the pilot had brought along a communicator with him.
     "Starbuck?" said Apollo.
     "Apollo, is that you?" came back the familiar voice.
     "Ha ha!" laughed Apollo at the identity of his friend's
voice aboard the Cylon craft.  Starbuck had employed the same
waggling maneuver that had saved them both on their last mission
to a Cylon basestar.
     "Hey, don't forget me," came back Boomer's voice.
     "Starbuck, Boomer what are you two doing over there?"
     "Rescuing your father," spat back Starbuck.
     "My father!  How is he?  Can I speak to him?"
     A long silence endured between the two parties until
Starbuck finally broke the uneasiness.  "He's okay.  But I can't
say the same for us all."  Starbuck's ominous words hung between
them as the two Vipers escorted their friends back to the
Galactica.

     "Today we have gathered together to pay homage to the men
and women, warriors, who have sacrificed their lives so that we
may survive and continue our holy quest," Adama began after all
the officers had assembled in the great hall.  All offduty
personnel had been ordered to this ceremony and those few who
remained on duty were watching on their monitors.  Adama made
sure that everyone in the fleet was witnessing this, in order
that they never forget those who had placed the lives of others
above their own.
     "Colonel Tigh was an outstanding officer and a good friend.
With the help of his wisdom and courage we have managed to
survive a while longer in our endless struggle against our
dreaded enemy whose sole purpose is to wipe us off the plane of
existence."  This comment was directed at the members of the
Council of the Twelve who still thought that peace could be
achieved with the Cylons and that they should settle down on the
first habitable planet they came to.  He was sorry it had to come
to this, but Adama hoped that Tigh's death would end this
argument once and for all.  "Our latest victory has cost us our
dearest blood.  Never again shall we leave ourselves open for
attack.  Never again shall we settle down for any period of time
on any world, no matter how promising, until we are rid of the
Cylon menace forever.
     "Now, I ask for your forgiveness.  I have broken my promise
to you.  I surrendered this vessel to the enemy.  No matter what
the outcome of that decision was, I broke a sacred trust and need
your reconciliation.  I vow that I will not succumb to the Cylons
from this day forward and reaffirm my pledge to lead this fleet
to the safety of Earth, wherever that illusive world may be.
     "As for my friend," said Adama as he paused to reach down
and touch the casket that contained his body, the pain showing in
his voice.  "I cannot begin to express my gratitude or grief over
what he has done.  I can only salute him with the utmost honor."
Then in a softer voice.  "Farewell, my friend.  May the Lord be
with you on your journey."  With that, Adama sent the tube off
into space, as a trio of Vipers flew by the window, firing their
lasers in a spectacular tribute to the dead.
     The crowd dispersed quietly and peacefully, leaving Adama by
himself to his thoughts.  He stood their for several centons,
gazing out the window at a distant point of light in the sky.

     "You asked to see me, Father," announced Apollo as he
entered Adama's private chambers.
     "Yes, Apollo, sit down," replied the Commander from behind
his desk as he wiped away the fatigue from his eyes.
     "You should rest."
     "No, I'll be all right.  Apollo, there's something I have
here for you."  He reached into his desk and pulled out a small
box that he slid across the desk.  Apollo received the gift and
opened it up, shocked at what he saw.
     "I nominated you and the Council approved. . . Colonel."
     Apollo stared in awe at what he saw.  A promotion to
colonel!  Apollo knew that his father had been meaning to give
him more responsibilities but he didn't realize he would be
promoted.  It then occurred to him that this promotion was going
beyond what Adama had originally intended.  Adama meant for
Apollo to replace Tigh at his side.  Earlier he had been
reluctant to lose his wings to accept the burden his father was
giving him, but now he felt honored.  He knew how much Tigh's
death had hurt Adama and he couldn't injure his father more by
refusing his offer.  His father needed him and the fleet did too.
but in what capacity?  There were all ready enough Viper pilots
and new cadets were joining the ranks each day.  Apollo accepted
that as an officer he had to serve where he was most needed and
qualified and right now that was at his father's side.  Apollo
looked up at his father and accepted the promotion with a simple
nod.  He stood up to leave but Adama interrupted him.
     "Apollo, I know how much flying a Viper means to you.  I
want to thank you for thinking about the safety of the fleet
first in this decision."  Adama looked up at his son, bringing a
small smile to his face.  "Don't worry son, I'll see that you get
out there from time to time."
     Apollo nodded his head, indicating his appreciation and left
the room.  Adama was once more alone to his thoughts.

     Lucifer sat in his command chair, fully repaired from his
battle damage.  He discovered that to defeat these humans he had
to learn how to think and feel as they did.  That was the reason
the Leader had chosen Baltar to pursue them before.
Unfortunately, Baltar was just as susceptible to his emotions as
his prey and that eventually lead to his capture and subsequent
exile.  Lucifer on the other hand could maintain a close
supervision of his internal processes and correct an error in
judgment before it could be acted upon.  He knew this was a
dangerous course of action to take but it was for the benefit of
the Cylon Alliance.
     They were approaching the shipyards and would soon be
arriving for repairs.  Lucifer felt confident that they would be
underway after a brief stay.  In fact, their detour to the
shipyards was only precautionary.  The damage to the ship was
minimal and could easily be repaired out in space.  But Lucifer
believed in perfection and wanted to be sure that his baseship
was fully operational when he resumed his search.  This basestar
was the latest in Cylon construction and was much more durable
than its predecessors.  After refit, the ship would be more
powerful than ever and then Adama would feel his wrath.  He would
not fail again.
     One variable did trouble him however; the escape of the
prisoners.  There had to have been a second group of humans to
achieve this disruption.  Reports were that at least two humans
were assisting the ones called Adama and Tigh in their escape.
One had been identified as having blonde hair and showed a
remarkable resemblance to Lieutenant Starbuck.  This intrigued
him since Lieutenant Starbuck was one of the few humans he had
encountered that he had liked since he was so much different from
Baltar.
     When he finally captured the Galactica, he would have to
make sure that Starbuck was taken unarmed so that he could talk
to this astonishing human.  When he thought about the damage to
his ship and Starbuck's involvement, he began to worry about his
future as a baseship commander.  If there were other humans like
Starbuck, this could be a long and tiring tour of duty.



Fleeing from the Cylon tyranny, the last battlestar, Galactica,
leads a ragtag fugitive fleet on a lonely quest.  A shining
planet known as Earth.
