                      BATTLESTAR  GALACTICA


                 TALES  FROM  A  MILLENNIUM  WAR







                    T H E   S U R V I V O R S













                           Written by


                         Adam C. Stacey





                 Based on Battlestar Galactica


                           Created by


                         Glen A. Larson








     The exploration ship Hermes drifted through deep space on
its routine patrol route.  This vessel had the distinguished
honor of being the furthest military ship from the front lines.
The Great Cylon War had just been given its title of 'great'
after the one hundredth yahren had passed commemorating the start
of the conflict.  The forces of the Twelve Colonies had rushed to
the defense of the Hasari Nation a hundred yahrens ago to save
them from the Cylon Alliance, a race of machine warriors who
sought the complete subjugation of the universe.
     The Cylons had once been organic creatures, not unlike most
other sentient beings in the cosmos.  Their reptilian form had
proven inefficient, however, for space travel so the Cylons
constructed mechanized automatons to carry out their will.  After
several different forms had run their course, the Cylons created
a machine in the image of man because they were the most
efficient bipeds in the known universe.  Their creations quickly
carried out their goals of conquest with ferocious terror.  But
the Cylons had become weak with their dependence on technology.
Their creations turned on their masters and launched a genocidal
war to rid their homeworld of the reptiles.  The Cylons were
totally unprepared for this betrayal and rapidly diminished in
the war that followed.  When their purge was complete, the
machines named one of their own as the Imperious Leader of the
Empire and took on the name Cylon, completely replacing their old
masters.
     With that accomplished, the machine Cylons looked out over
the Empire they now controlled and sought to expand its domain in
every direction.  They demanded total servitude and obedience and
those who dared opposed them were brutally destroyed.  The
Hasaris were next in line for attack.  They rejected the Cylons'
terms of surrender and readied themselves for retribution.  When
the Cylons came, the Hasaris sent a plea for help that was heard
around the cosmos.  Only one race came to their assistance, the
humans dwelling in the Twelve Worlds of the Three Suns.
Realizing the importance of the stand the Hasaris were taking,
mankind turned all their modes of production to war and rushed to
their neighbor's aide.
     Since then, every child born in the Colonies had only known
one state of existence, warfare.  Every facet of their day to day
lives was devoted to the war against the Cylon Empire.  Entire
generations had known nothing else.  Now, the Great Cylon War had
entered its second century and the Hasari nation was teetering on
the brink of collapse.  With that calamity, the Cylons moved one
step closer to the borders of human civilization.
     Now, with the last stand of the Hasaris being planned,
Colonel Nolan was commanding a scout ship on a routine
reconnaissance mission along the outer frontier.  That probably
summed up his current military status more than any performance
report could.  Nolan was a man in his early seventies, fast
approaching his seventy-fifth yahren celebration.  In terms of
rank, he couldn't be happier than where he was now but his
assignments had left something to be desired.  That was mostly
his fault however.  He had tried to join the military and retain
a conscience at the same time.  He had since learned the folly of
his idealism.
     The Hermes was approaching an asteroid cluster in the
Quinton quadrant.  This was as remote as you could get while
still staying within the Colonies' outer defense perimeter.  All
that was out here were a few listening outposts and some
forgotten pioneers who had no idea that the human race was in a
war for its very survival.  The war had consumed every facet of
life and these people had been neglected for far too long.  In
another hundred yahren or so, no one would even remember places
like Sectar or Atilla.  They would drift out of memory until some
lost pilot would happen upon one of these settlements and realize
he had distant cousins out here amongst the stars.
     Soon, even those few men and women he maintained contact
with would be abandoned as the war pulled more and more ships
into service.  Nolan knew that he only had another tour or two
left before the Hermes would be conscripted to the front lines
and he would be shuttled off to a desk job homeworld.  His
military career had ended a long time ago.  It had simply taken
longer than he thought for the paperwork to be filled out on his
death sentence.
     "Report coming in from Lt. Carter, sir," said the young
flight corporal manning the communications station on the bridge
of the Hermes.
     "Patch it through, Corporal."
     "Aye, sir."
     The corporal worked at the transmission, boosting the
integrity of the signal until it could be read aboard the Hermes.
Even though communications technology was still in its infancy,
the Hermes had the oldest possible equipment on board, making the
problem that much worse.
     "Colonel Nolan," broke through the lieutenant's voice
through the static.
     "This is the Hermes.  We're reading you, Lieutenant,"
replied Nolan into his wireframe communicator resting on his
head.
     "Sir, we have detected a large asteroid in the middle of
this cluster," came back Carter's voice weakly through the
interference.  The asteroids weren't making their communications
difficulties any easier, thought Nolan as he strained his ears to
listen to his officer's message.  "It seems to have an atmosphere
capable of sustaining life."
     "What do you suggest, Lieutenant?" said Nolan.  He had
always maintained that supervisors functioned best when they let
their subordinates do their jobs.  He thought this worked equally
well in the military and tried to give as much autonomy as
possible to his crew.
     "I recommend we make a low orbit pass to scan for life
signs.  If we find something then I request that we put down and
do a terrestrial search."
     "Acknowledged and approved, Lieutenant.  Proceed with
caution.  We don't know the extent of the Cylon's penetration in
this sector."
     "Yes, sir.  Shuttle Alpha out."
     The transmission ceased and the bridge crew resumed their
duties while their fellow crewmen sought out the unknown.

     The shuttle proceeded on its new course as it continued
through the asteroids to its new destination.  Lt. Carter
occupied the pilot's seat with Cadet Breen in the copilot's
position.  In the back of the shuttle was a small compliment of
warriors commanded by Sergeant Shane.
     As Carter maneuvered the ship through the titanic space
rocks, he marveled at the design of the shuttle he was piloting.
The war had caused great leaps in technology but had also slowed
other areas down.  The shuttle he was in had hardly changed in
the last hundred yahren.  In fact, with only a few structural
changes, he could be flying the same shuttle people flew two
hundred yahren ago.  The Hermes was also an older vessel but had
been upgraded over the course of time to still stay relatively
modern.  The ship was far from the smallest ship in the fleet but
not as large as a warship or the star carriers that were used to
transport fighter craft to the battlescene.
     The ship had two massive engines in the rear quadrant that
powered all its main systems.  It had one landing bay on its
ventral side that housed three shuttles and two outdated fighter
craft for defense.  A handful of laser turrets had been recently
installed on its hull to handle the occasional Cylon patrol ship
they ran into in their flight path but for the most part their
voyage was a tranquil one that ended every other hetari at
Lycamaran outpost in the Rolar quadrant.
     The young cadet next to Carter unconsciously yawned and
quickly stifled it when he saw that his superior officer was
watching him.  Breen had been assigned to the Hermes crew only a
few sectons ago.  He was on extended leave from the Academy to
develop his skills before he returned to finish his training and
be sent off to the front lines.  Carter envied the young man
much.  He had once dreamed of being a Colonial warrior fighting
the Cylons over the skies of Hasari Prime and defending their
amphibious friends from the terror that had befallen them.  But
that was no longer to be.
     Like his commanding officer, he too had fallen out of favor
with the High Command.  He wasn't sure what he had done but after
several tours of duty aboard the Hermes he knew that he had seen
the last combat duty of his career.  Just four yahrens ago he had
served with the Twelfth division in Omega Squadron.  He had been
a seasoned warrior several yahrens out of the academy and fast on
his way up the promotion ladder.  But after an incident over one
of Hasari Prime's four moons, he had been slowly transferred away
from the front lines and had ended up out hear in as deep as deep
space could get.
     His companion, Sergeant Shane, on the other hand was bred
for combat and had no doubt in his mind that this was just a
temporary tour of duty.  Shane was the perfect warrior.  Strong,
brave, loyal, courageous and willing to obey an order on the spot
even if it meant his death.  He was exactly what the military
wanted, unlike Carter and Nolan who were not capable of blind
obedience and were now suffering the punishment for their
character flaws.
     "Asteroid contact in twenty microns," said Cadet Breen
beside him, bringing Carter out of his daze.
     "Confirmed, Cadet.  I'll take over the orbiting maneuver."
     Breen handed control over to Carter as he guided their
shuttle into a high altitude orbit that would allow them to scan
most of the planetoid's surface.  Scanning in these days meant
using corrupted equipment that the naked eye could outperform.
But everyone had to make do with what they had and Carter had
been using this equipment long enough to get the maximum
performance out of it.
     "I'll scan for energy sources.  Breen, you look for any
thermal emissions."
     The two men went to work as they examined the planetoid
below for any signs of life.  After several exhausting centons of
work, Breen finally reported something worth noticing.
     "Lieutenant, on the terminator.  I'm detecting faint traces
of geothermal radiation."
     "Is it naturally occurring?"
     "I don't think so, sir.  The pattern is too consistent as if
it's being artificially harnessed."
     Carter bent over Breen's scanners to get a closer look for
himself.  "Good work, Cadet.  Who's ever down there is doing an
excellent job at camouflaging their operation."
     "Could it be Cylons?" said Sergeant Shane, eager to get into
battle.
     "I'm not sure that machines would need a geothermal power
source.  Unless their using it for military purposes.  We'd
better take a closer look," decided Carter, accepting the risks
of his decision.  "Breen, bring us down on the far side of their
encampment.  Make sure you stay outside their visual range and
try to use the geothermal exhaust to mask our power
transmissions."
     "Aye, sir," said the cadet nervously as he went to work on
the difficult task.
     Carter had learned a thing or two about entrusting your
subordinates from Nolan and was now putting it to the test.  A
quick look at Shane's face revealed that the Sergeant wasn't as
confident in the cadet's abilities but focused his attention on
preparing his troops for battle as his men checked their weapons.
     The shuttle descended on to the planetoid's surface.  As the
engines cooled, the hatchway slowly opened up and Lt. Carter
became the first human to descend on to the rocky surface below.
Sergeant Shane and the three warriors in his brigade soon
followed after him as they secured the area by pointing their
weapons in every direction to detect any hidden danger lurking in
the rocks.  Cadet Breen came out a centon later after securing
the ship's systems after shutdown.
     "The site is five hundred metrons that way, sir," said Breen
as he pointed the direction out.
     "Okay, Cadet, you stay here with the shuttle.  The rest of
you follow me."
     Breen went back inside while Carter lead the way as the five
men set out for their destination.

     Colonel Nolan stood on his bridge, patiently waiting for
something to happen.  That was the main problem with these deep
space patrols, nothing usually happened.  It was all he could do
to keep his crew attentive to their duties from the monotonous
routine that was rarely broken.  Shuttle Alpha had sent a brief
message indicating that they were landing on the planetoid.  From
there on, communication silence had been maintained and all the
bridge crew could do was wait and see what happened.
     His bridge was nothing as marvelous as a Colonial
battleship, but was adequate nonetheless.  A viewer was placed
directly in front of him from which he could admire the
unchanging view of the stars.  Directly aft of that were three
computer stations where his guidance personnel piloted the ship.
Behind them was a full circle of stations that ranged from
defense systems to internal life support and power.  He mostly
moved in between the people, pretending to monitor their work.
But when he was in one of his reflective moods, like now, he sat
in his chair that was positioned directly behind the guidance
personnel and at the top of the circle of work stations.  The
chair was slightly elevated giving him the ability to see over
the heads of his crewmen and take in an uninterrupted view of the
stars.
     It was a modest layout, and a bit confined for all the
movement that was going on, but it was his.  Despite all that his
superiors had done to him, they still rewarded him with this
special privilege.  He was far too competent an officer to be
wasted so they sent him as far away from battle as possible so
that he would not interrupt the war effort.  His crime was
disobedience in the field.  His commander, a man by the name of
Achilles, had ordered his men into battle.  Nolan, a captain at
the time and the squadron leader, had refused.  His men had just
finished an exhausting battle with the Cylons that had saved the
lower continent of Hasari Prime from destruction.  They were
battle weary and could barely stand when they received the order.
Achilles wanted them to pursue the fleeing fighters and finish
them off before they could return to their transports.  Nolan,
seeing the insane fire in Achilles eyes, had refused, citing that
his men were not capable of combat and he could lose half his
squadron if he sent them into battle.  Achilles was outraged and
threw Nolan in the brig.  Later, after a third of his squadron
had been destroyed in the attack, Achilles had been relieved of
duty and retired with honors back on his home colony of Piscera.
     Nolan, a witness to this incident, was swept aside so that
he would not disrupt the morale of the warriors by informing
others of what had transpired.  They also didn't want him
testifying to the Quorum of what kind of commanders CORE command
was placing in combat.  So he had ended up here with a promotion
to colonel to justify the command they were giving him.  Now he
simply waited out his remaining years of duty before the military
finished what they had started and retired him back homeworld.

     Carter and his entourage proceeded towards the geothermal
site they had detected from orbit.  The ground warriors behind
him were doing all they could to not fire off their weapons
prematurely.  Unlike flight officers, these men were trained for
ground assault and it had been along time since they had touched
the surface of potentially hostile soil.  Carter had the feeling
that he was going to have to be the sane one of the group or this
could turn into a massacre.
     They passed over a rise and saw what they had been searching
for.  Below them was a small campsite with a steady pulse of
steam rising out of the rocks and being harnessed by a generator
that Carter had never seen before.  The campsite consisted of
about twenty domes that were scarcely as large as the
shuttlecraft they came down in.  The walls were made of some
dark, rough edged metal that allowed the camp to blend in
perfectly with the rock surrounding it.  The entire habitat was
constructed for the purpose of camouflage and concealment from
the watchful eyes of others.
     "All right, let's move in," said Carter, seeing the
readiness of the men beside him.  "But slowly, let's not try to
alarm anyone until we're down to their level.  This may be
deserted."
     "Don't worry, Lieutenant.  If it's not, then leave it to
us," said Shane from beside him as he thumbed the trigger on his
gun.
     "Sergeant, we don't know who or what is down there.  Don't
you think we should talk to them before we blow them all to
Kobol?"
     "They'll have their chance to talk, sir."
     Carter tried to read the thoughts in the other man's mind
and wasn't pleased with the ideas his sergeant was having.  He
slowly slid down the side of the small hill they were on to the
level of the campsite.  Halfway down the slope, Carter spotted a
figure slipping out of one of the domes.  But before he could
signal the rest of his team Shane had already acted.
     "Halt!" he shouted at the top of his lungs as he brought his
weapon to bear.
     The creature screamed in panic and raced across the
landscape in terror.  Shane tracked the being preparing to fire
when Carter looked behind him and knocked his weapon off target.
The gun went off sending a small concentrated burst of light up
into the air as the two men came tumbling down the slope in their
struggle for possession of the deadly weapon.
     The two warriors came to a stop at the bottom of the hill,
still locked in a mortal struggle.  Shane managed to pin Carter
to the ground with his gun pressuring Carter's windpipe.
     "Don't ever interfere with me again!"
     He began to ease up on the pressure he was applying when
Carter sent the rifle back into his face, knocking the sergeant
flat on his back.  Carter stood up slowly, trying to gain his
strength back when the three warriors reached the bottom.  They
all had their weapons drawn but were unsure who to aim at.
     "At ease, Corporal," ordered Lieutenant Carter.
     The three men slowly lowered their weapons and began to help
their leader back to his feet.
     "Corporal Talon, did you see where the alien went," asked
Carter.
     "Yes, sir.  It went back behind those rocks."
     "Thank you.  Maintain your position and do nothing.  I'll be
back shortly."
     "Sir, are you sure you don't require our assistance. . ."
     "I'll require it when I ask for it!"
     "Yes, sir," said the young warrior smartly.
     "And make sure he stays put," ordered Carter behind him as
he headed off to search for the alien.

     About fifty metrons ahead of him, Carter spotted a brief
movement among the rocks.  He quickly took off after it, not
wanting it to escape before he had a chance to communicate.
     The alien spotted him coming and raced away in an attempt to
escape.  But Carter was much to fast for the slow moving creature
and caught up to it before it could get to far.
     "Wait!" shouted Carter to its back.
     The alien stopped for a micron, immobilized by the force of
his call.
     "I just want to talk," said Carter in his most friendly
voice.
     The alien continued to stay where it was.
     "Please, turn around."
     Carter waited, hoping that the alien could understand and
not elude him further.  His hopes were upheld as the creature
slowly turned around and faced him.
     "By the Lords of Kobol," whispered Carter as he recognized
the being in front of him.  A creature that was considered
extinct yahrens ago.

     "Message coming in from the surface, sir," said Corporal
Vega from his station.
     "Good, patch it through."
     "Sir, this is Lieutenant Carter reporting."
     "We read you, Carter.  Go ahead."
     A long pause followed and Nolan wondered if the Hermes was
transmitting at all when Carter finally broke the silence.
     "We found Cylons," came the reply.
     "Cylons!" said Nolan, his worst fears becoming reality.
"I'll send reinforcements immediately!  Tell me your present
condition."
     "No, sir you don't understand."  Carter paused once more to
lend emphasis to his next message.  "I mean real Cylons."
     "Good Lord," muttered Nolan to himself.  "Is it possible?
Are their really any original Cylons left alive?"
     "Yes, sir.  From what I can see, the Cylons have been hiding
on this planetoid for a hundred yahren.  Since the beginning of
the war."
     "That would explain how they have survived.  The Cylons, I
mean the machine Cylons, wiped out every living being on their
homeworld before they attacked the Hasari."
     "These refugees must have escaped before the worst of the
genocide had occurred.  I'm amazed they've even lasted this long
from the looks of how they're living."
     "Try to establish a dialogue with them.  The shuttle's
computers should have a complete record of what we know of the
original Cylon culture.  We may have to relocate them.  I'm sure
command would like a chance to talk to these refugees.  They
could provide information that might prove invaluable to the war
effort."
     "I agree, sir.  I'll report back every fifteen centons."
     "Acknowledged, Carter and good luck."
     Carter ended the transmission and fumbled through the
shuttle for an access port to the computer's memory storage.
After finding the correct terminal, he downloaded all the
information it had on the Cylons into his hand held recorder.
After the transmission was completed, he went outside to get back
to Shane and his men before they could do any damage.  After he
had returned to the shuttle, he piloted the craft closer to the
encampment and left one warrior to stand guard.  While he was
communicating with Nolan, he had sent Breen out to keep an eye on
Sergeant Shane and make sure he didn't do anything drastic.
     Now Carter was returning to the campsite and preparing to
meet with the leader of the band of refugees.  The first Cylon he
had encountered had been only a youngster.  He had escorted the
youth back to the camp where his brethren were slowly filing out
of their shelters to see what was happening.  After convincing
Shane not to shoot him and the Cylons, he had assembled the group
in one area and left the soldiers on guard.  With the information
he had retrieved he hoped to begin the rigorous process of
communication with their chief elder who had stepped in front to
profess his authority.
     "Greetings, sir," said Carter.  "I'm not sure if you can
understand me but I am Lieutenant Carter of the Colonial scout
ship Hermes.  There is no cause for alarm, we are only on a
routine patrol mission.  The men behind me are here for your
protection."  The chief elder looked beyond Carter to the men he
had indicated.  Carter waited but the creature made no attempt at
communication.
     "If you can understand me please reply.  If not, then this
device I am holding will provide a rough translation of your
native tongue."  That is if they have a tongue, thought Carter.
     Several more centons of silence passed between them and
Carter wasn't sure what to do next.  He had been born and bred to
be a Colonial warrior and was not accustomed to diplomacy.  It
was odd that it had taken a tour of duty meant as punishment to
secure his name in the annals of history.
     The being in front of him finally began to speak.  The
words, or what he guessed were words, that emitted from his mouth
were so alien that he could not perceive them as a communicable
language.  Carter glanced down at his hand held computer to make
sure it was storing the information that it was receiving.
Hopefully, it would be able to give him a translation within a
few microns so that he could respond.  The alien finally finished
its speech and waited patiently for his reply.  Carter anxiously
waited for the computer's translation, realizing that this would
be the first communication with a species thought dead aeons ago.
     Finally, the translation came through, rather roughly as he
had first believed.  When attempting to form a bridge between two
so different cultures, Carter realized that some things would be
lost.  The computer did its best to provide a translation but he
could tell that the machine could not come up with a similar
concept for many words.  He only hoped that he wasn't missing
some crucial piece of information.
     It was fortunate for him that the human race had contacted
many worlds to this date.  Their own knowledge of the Cylon
civilization was limited and most of their information had been
provided by their neighbors amongst the stars.  Due to this fact,
the message he read was complete enough to understand and form a
reply to.  The leader's name was Chulka.  He and his followers
were descendants of the original settlers who had fled from the
persecution on their homeworld.  Their ancestors had been
resistance fighters who opposed the Cylon leadership.  They had
fled their world before the machines had taken over, realizing
that the end of their civilization was at hand.  But their ship
had been forced to land here before they could reach the world
they were heading for.  Despite that fact, this location proved
invaluable and had kept them hidden from the watchful eyes of the
machines for a hundred yahren.  Now, they were asking his party
to leave before they could be detected by their enemies.
     Or at least, that was what Carter could deduce out of the
choppy sentences that appeared on the screen before him.  He
translated the word they used for 'enemy' to mean the machines
who bore their names.  Nevertheless, it was a moving tale that
stirred a deep sense of sympathy from him.  These poor creatures
were the last of their kind who were living no better than common
animals.  He tried to remember that when he began to form a
reply.
     "Sir, can you understand what I am saying or do you need
this device to aid you?" asked Carter as he held out the computer
towards Chulka.
     Chulka glanced down at the device and waved it away,
indicating that he could understand what the warrior was saying.
Cylon technology might have advanced farther than the humans had
imagined or else the Cylon mind was constructed very differently
from their own allowing them to understand universal concepts in
their own language.  Either way, Carter was glad since the
machine was not designed to transmit his language into Cylon with
much ease.
     "I sympathize with your cause," continued Carter.  "But you
must know that you are not safe here.  We found you and so can
the machines we call Cylons.  I have been directed by my
superiors to offer you safe haven among my people.  We have the
ability to protect you from your enemies.  In exchange, your
knowledge of these machines your people constructed could prove
invaluable to our war effort.  Please consider my offer before
making your decision.  This world you inhabit," said Carter as he
gestured at the surrounding terrain, "is inhospitable.  We can
provide your people with a better life and safety from your
enemies.  You will never live in fear again."
     Chulka paused and slowly took in everything around him from
a different point of view.  He saw their homes as crude
fortresses protecting them from the dangers that lay in the
stars.  He saw his people as refugees, longing to return home.
He saw the young ones with the fear in their eyes and knew that
they would never live a normal lifestyle as long as they remained
here.
     After taking several microns to think, Chulka spoke a brief
phrase and returned back to the campsite followed by his people.
Shane reacted in alarm to their desertion and motioned his men to
follow them when Carter stopped him.  The translation had just
came through and Carter now knew what was going on.
     "Wait Shane.  They're taking time to discuss our plan."
     "What's their to discuss, Lieutenant."  With each passing
moment, Shane's pronunciation of 'lieutenant' grew more sarcastic
and was now bordering on insubordination.  "They're going back
with us whether they like it or not."
     "That may be, Sergeant.  But for now let them have their
freedom.  If command orders us to take them into custody then
we'll deal with that when the time comes.  Let's not start a
fight when none is needed.  Understood?"
     Shane kept his weapon trained on the departing aliens, not
sure what his next course of action might be.  Carter decided to
make it easy on the sergeant.
     "Do I have to remind you who is in command here, Sergeant?"
     "No, sir," acknowledged Shane as he grudgingly lowered his
weapon.
     "Good, now let's move back to the shuttle and see if the
Colonel has any orders for us.  Corporal Talon, stay here and
report on anything. . .
     "Lieutenant!" shouted Breen as he came racing over the hill
nearly plowing into the officer in question.
     "Breen, are you crazy!"
     "No, sir.  Sorry, sir.  I just heard over the comlink.
There's a Cylon patrol heading this way!"

     "Sound general quarters!  All hands to their stations,"
announced Colonel Nolan after the bridge officer had detected
Cylon ships on her scanner.
     "Aye, sir," returned Sergeant Corinth as he brought the
bridge to a state of battle readiness.
     "Have Flight Sergeants Thorpe and Ramses report to their
fighters."
     Tension settled over the bridge as the crew waited for the
attack to commence.  An exploration ship didn't encounter combat
often and their patrol route steered them clear of most Cylon
controlled sectors.
     "Thirty-five microns and closing," said Corinth as he
tracked the incoming enemy vectors.
     The silence continued with only the red light of battle
alert changing the normal scene on the bridge.
     "Fifteen microns and closing," updated Corinth.
     "Sir, Sergeants Thorpe and Ramses are standing by.  Ready to
launch," said Vega.
     "Launch," ordered Nolan.
     Nolan could feel the deck shake below him as the two pilots
launched their craft into the void.
     "How many inbounds are we tracking," asked Nolan.
     "Four targets, sir," reported Corinth.  "Standard patrol
formation."
     "Bring all batteries to bear.  They may not be able to
handle them all."
     "Aye, sir.  Activating laser defense system."
     The minimal defenses of the Hermes came to life and crew
members rushed to their turrets to fire at the enemy.  Every one
of the laser batteries was manually operated by two man teams.
One to maneuver the gun into position and the other to fire the
weapon.
     "Visual contact," came Thorpe's voice over the channel.

     Thorpe and Ramses guided their C78-Hawks into battle against
their mortal foes.  The Cylon fighters, dubbed Stingers for their
sleek build and single laser turret in the front, opened fire as
they descended on the two warriors.  The two pilots evaded the
assault and unleashed barrages of their own, knocking out two
Stingers before the other two broke formation, diving on the
Hermes.  The two pilots split up, each pursuing one Stinger,
attempting to intercept them before they could reach their
homeship.
     The two Cylons guided their machines towards the human ship.
The laser batteries on the Hermes opened fire, throwing up a
shield of fire that would deter their opponents from penetrating
closer.  Ramses closed in on his foe and forced the Cylon to fly
close to the Hermes where a warrior operating the port-dorsal
side battery managed to make contact, sending the Stinger
careening out of control.  Ramses lined up the ship in his sights
and finished it off.
     The other Stinger managed to penetrate the defensive fire
and get in close to the scout ship.  The Cylon pilot fired his
gun repeatedly, dealing out extensive damage to the starboard
hull.  Thorpe chased after the machine warrior and destroyed it
before it could fire on the engine section.  The explosion was
too close to the hull, however, and a massive tear was scarred
into the ship while a plume of debris spewed out from the
decompression.
     "Bridge, this is Thorpe.  I didn't get him in time.  You've
got heavy damage to your starboard side and a hull breach in the
starboard-aft section, close to engineering."
     "Acknowledged, Sergeant," came back Nolan's voice.  "We
confirm your report.  Use your fuel to its maximum use and patrol
the area for signs of other enemy contacts."
     "Understood.  Thorpe out."

     "Repair teams to the damaged areas," shouted Nolan over the
noise of the bridge as the crew fought to regain control of the
wounded vessel.  "Corinth, how bad is it?"
     "Extensive, Colonel.  But it should be manageable.  The only
problem we'll have is that hull breach near engineering.  It's
pretty large and we're losing a lot of oxygen through it."
     "Have the repair crew concentrate on locking down that
section.  We can't let anymore of our air supply escape into the
vacuum."
     Suddenly, the lights on the bridge grew noticeably dimmer.
They flickered for a few more microns and then slowly regained
illumination, although not as bright as before.
     "What's happening?"
     "Power loss, sir, shipwide.  Several of our main power
conduits have been severed along the damaged areas."
     "Get them rerouted as quickly as possible.  We can't afford
to lose power if there are more Cylons in the vicinity."
     "Aye, sir," said Corinth and began the long job ahead of
him.
     "Corporal Vega, get me Lieutenant Carter."
     "I can't, sir.  We've lost our main antennae array.  All
communications to the planet are severed."
     Nolan sank back in his chair in helplessness, realizing what
that meant.  "Then they're a sitting target," he said.

     "Hermes, do you read?" said Cadet Breen again.  "Colonel
Nolan, please respond?  It's no use, Lieutenant.  We've lost all
contact with the Hermes."
     "Keep trying, Breen.  Every few centons."
     "Sir?" said the cadet with a worried look.
     "Don't worry, Breen.  I'm sure they're all right.  They've
probably lost their antennae array.  It's an older model and is
vulnerable to damage."
     "Yes, sir," said Breen, cheering up a bit.
     "What do we do now, Lieutenant?" said Shane defiantly.
     "Now, Sergeant, we wait," said Carter, knowing full well
that Shane would rather do anything but that.

     The Cylon baseship drifted through the asteroid field on its
patrol route in this sector.  The bulky Cylon vessel was a
symmetrical rectangular shape with a launch bay taking up the
forward section.  A great maw opened up in front from which the
fighters could exit the behemoth space carrier.
     Inside, a Cylon warrior was making his way to his superior
with a vital report.  "By your command," said the centurion as he
entered the presence of his commanding officer aboard the Cylon
baseship.
     "Report," said Commander Tiamat.
     "Our patrol has encountered Colonial warriors," droned the
Cylon.
     "How many?" said Tiamat in a deeper tone.
     "Two Hawks operating from a larger ship."
     "A star carrier?"
     "No, it was a smaller vessel."
     "Launch fighters.  Destroy the humans," ordered Tiamat.
     "By your command."  The centurion left the command center to
carry out his instructions.  Centons later, wave after wave of
Cylon Stingers launched from the baseship on a vector toward the
Hermes.

     Lieutenant Carter approached the hut belonging to Chulka,
leader of the Cylon refugees on this world.  He had waited
patiently outside while the group met inside, discussing their
future.  Several centons ago, the meeting had closed and the last
Cylon had left the structure.  Carter waited a little longer and
then entered the hut, to speak to Chulka alone.
     The inside of the hut was as bland as the outside.  These
refugees had lived a meager existence that had not allowed for
any amenities to be created for their comfort.  In the center was
a small fire with five mats surrounding it in a circle.  Chulka
sat on the far side of the flame, deep in concentration.
     "Chulka," said Carter, announcing his presence.
     The alien being didn't stir, but simply motioned with his
left hand to the mat next to him, still in a deep trance.  Carter
moved around the fire and sat down, waiting for Chulka to address
him.  Several centons later, Chulka finally opened his eyes and
turned toward the human.
     "I am glad that you have come, Carter," said the machine he
was carrying after a few microns delay.  The machine was working
faster, thought Carter.  At least something was going right.
     "I need to discuss with you the future of your people," said
Carter.  "Have you come to a decision about our offer?"
     "We have and we have decided that we cannot accept your
generous invitation," said Chulka.
     "Sir, I must request that you reconsider your decision.  My
superiors will insist that you return with us."
     "Why?  Do we not possess the freedom to create our destiny?"
     "In this matter, no.  You have information that could be
valuable to our war effort.  In times of war, freedoms must be
curbed towards the greater good.
     "I understand.  We too allowed many injustices to be
committed for what we called the greater good.  I only regret
that my people did not realize their mistakes until it was too
late to correct them."
     "Sir," began Carter, trying to understand this strange being
before him.  "Why do you want to stay here?  You are in constant
danger of being discovered by the Cylons and our recent battle
will undoubtedly bring more of your enemies to this area."
     "We have lived in fear our whole lives, Lieutenant.  We will
continue to do so as if nothing has changed."
     "But your people are barely surviving?  Don't you want to
take them away from here to a more comfortable place to live?"
     "You do not understand my people, Carter," said Chulka.  "We
do not value comfort as highly as your culture.  For us, there is
no other way to live.  We will survive."
     "I wish I could make you change your mind.  I regret that I
might be forced to remove you from this world against your
wishes.  I do not want to do this, but I must follow orders."
     "I understand, Carter.  We too are creatures of duty.  Do
not be concerned for us.  We choose to live this life.  We are
suffering for the sins of our race.  We must repay this burden so
that our god may forgive us and cleanse the mark that has stained
our society."
     "I wish you well, Chulka.  I must warn you that we will
return, and this time without open arms."
     "Peace to you, Carter.  I pray that fate does not bring us
into conflict."
     Carter stood up and left the hut.  He glanced behind him
once more to find Chulka resuming his meditation.  With profound
sadness, he walked back to his shuttle to await the orders he did
not want to obey.

     "How long until repairs are completed?"
     "Two maybe three more centaurs," replied Corinth.
     "We don't have three centaurs," said Nolan in futility.  "We
may not even have three centons."  A new thought occurred to
Nolan.  "How long until we can have at least full engine power?"
     "If we concentrate our efforts," said Corinth as he figured
out the answer on his computer.  "Less than a centaur."
     "Do it," ordered Nolan.  "If we can't fight the Cylons, at
least we'll be able to escape."
     "Yes, sir," replied Corinth as he carried out his task.
     "And get that antennae working as fast as you can!" yelled
Nolan to the fleeing sergeant.

     Carter approached the shuttle in defeat.  Breen, who was
taking a break from contacting the Hermes, noticed his superior's
downcast look.
     "No luck, sir?"
     "I'm afraid not," said Carter in resignation.  "These beings
live in a very duty bound culture.  They feel that this is some
sort of sentence by God that they are serving.  They refuse to
leave."
     "You realize that they won't last long if another Cylon
patrol returns," said Breen.
     "I know, Breen.  And it's not a matter of if they return but
when they return.  After spotting the Hermes, there sure to send
an attack force here.  Even if we leave the area, the Cylons will
undoubtedly detect this settlement, just as we did."
     "Couldn't they fix their power generator?  So that it won't
leak any excess energy," offered Breen hopefully.
     "Cadet," said Carter in excitement, "that is an excellent
idea.  Take the spare language translator with you and offer your
services to Chulka.  I'm sure he wouldn't mind any assistance you
can offer."
     "But, sir?" said Breen in confusion.  "If we are going to
have to remove them anyway, what's the point?"
     "The point is that we don't know the status of the Hermes
yet.  If it does happen that we are marooned here, then we'll
have to stay here for awhile.  And since a Cylon patrol is coming
anyway we might as well disguise our presence here as best we
can.  Now get moving, Cadet."
     "Yes, sir!" said Breen in excitement, anxious to be doing
something useful.
     Carter watched Breen disappear in the rocks to help out the
refugees.  Hopefully, he thought, there might be a way to leave
these people alone and if we can fix their generator they might
have a chance to survive.  But Carter could not know that his
plans were already being sabotaged.  Beyond sight, Sergeant Shane
had listened to the entire conversation and was now plotting to
carry out his duty and bring those aliens back for questioning,
one way or another.

     "Colonel!" announced Vega.
     "What is it, Corporal."
     "We are receiving transmissions from one of our
reconnaissance satellites."
     "What's it telling us?"
     "We're detecting several inbound objects approaching us.
Tight formation, uniform speed."
     "Cylons," declared Nolan.  "Go to battlestations!"
     "All hands to battlestations!" announced Corinth from his
side.
     The familiar red glowing lights and klaxon accompanied that
command as the ship was set in motion.
     "There must be a Cylon baseship operating nearby," said
Nolan in shock after seeing how many ships were displayed on the
monitor.  "How long do we have?" asked Nolan, leaning over Vega's
shoulder to get a better look at his monitor.
     "Approximately fifteen centons."
     "Communications status?" ordered Nolan.
     "Repair teams are still working on the main antennae array.
They estimate another ten centons until the work is completed."
     "Tell them they've got five!"
     "Yes, sir," said Vega as he returned his attention to his
instruments.
     "Engine room," announced Nolan into his comlink.
     "Yes, sir," replied the chief engineer.
     "Prepare to withdraw at maximum speed at a moment's notice.
I want everything you can give me."
     "You've got it, Colonel."
     "Sir?" said Sergeant Corinth from his side.  "What about
Lieutenant Carter's team?  They're still on the planetoid."
     "Sergeant," said Nolan as he stared straight at his aide.
"If we wait for them too long then none of us will survive."
     Corinth saw the determination in his commanding officer's
eyes and ceased his argument in the face of overwhelming logic.
     "Yes, sir."
     Nolan stood alone on the bridge, mentally preparing himself
for a battle he hoped he would not have to fight and facing the
real possibility of abandoning some of his men to their deaths.

     "Carter to Hermes, come in."  The communicator erupted into
static as he let go of the transmitter to listen for a reply.
     "This is Lieutenant Carter to the Hermes, do you read?"
Once again he was replied with static.
     "Frack!" he said in disgust as he threw down the
transmitter.  Now he knew how Breen must have felt.  No wonder
the kid was eager to fix a hundred yahren old alien generator in
the dead of night.  The local sun had set a few centons ago and
the planetoid had quickly been enveloped in darkness.  Breen had
been gone for close to two centaurs now, without any word.
Carter was beginning to worry and stood up to go after him when
he heard an explosion in the distance.
     Carter raced out of the shuttle and down the trail that
would lead to the camp.  If his senses weren't mistaken, that
explosion sounded as if it had come from this direction.  His
mind whirled in wonder at what lay ahead.  Had the Cylons come
sooner than he had expected?  Had a dormant volcano suddenly
erupted into violence?  Or perhaps a meteorite had struck nearby,
punching through the thin atmosphere of this asteroid.  What he
saw as he came to the top of the rise was a complete surprise.
     The geothermal generator, the same one that he had sent
Breen to fix not long ago, was on fire quickly burning to the
ground.  Nearby was Sergeant Shane and his men, scouring the
settlement and rounding up every refugee they could find, moving
them into the center of the camp.  Their guns were trained and
would be fired at a moment's notice.  Carter had thought Shane
was capable of many things, but mutiny was never one of them.  He
made his way down the trail as fast as he could on a direct
course for Shane.  He wasn't furious yet.  His concern for
Breen's welfare took precedence at the moment.  There would be
plenty of time for violent retribution later.
     "Sergeant!" hollered Carter as he came to a stop just a few
paces in front of the trained commando.
     "Yes, Lieutenant," said Shane, this time hiding none of his
disdain for his superior officer.
     "What is the meaning of this?  Where is Cadet Breen?"
     "Don't worry, sir.  The cadet is safe, he's right over
there," said Shane pointing with his rifle.
     Carter looked down at the ground and saw the unconscious
form of Breen slumped against a nearby hut.  He gave him a
cursory examination and verified that he was still alive before
turning back to his overeager sergeant.
     "What happened?" demanded Carter in an icy tone.
     "He disobeyed orders, sir.  When we placed our explosives,
he refused to leave.  I had to neutralize him in order to remove
him from danger."
     "You shot him!"
     "My weapon was set on mild stun.  He'll be all right and
will only retain a minimum amount of radiation.  Nothing our
medical staff can't deal with."  Shane said calmly, feeling that
he had acted properly.
     "Sergeant," said Carter trying to control his temper.
"Would you mind explaining yourself before I arrest you."
     This shocked Shane for a moment, only now realizing that he
had acted improperly in Carter's judgement.  "I was obeying
orders, sir.  They are the enemy and as such must be submitted
for interrogation."
     "These pitiful wretches are not our enemies," said Carter,
trying to get his point through to the sergeant.
     "Their Cylons aren't they?  We have orders to fire on any
and all Cylons that we encounter."
     "These are not the Cylons we are at war with!  They are just
as much victims of this war as you and I."
     Shane was bothered by this statement.  He didn't think of
himself as a victim.  He was a Colonial warrior dedicated to
destroying all machine warriors in the universe.  It was their
just right after all.
     "They created the machines didn't they?  We're at war with
their creations.  Then we're at war with our enemy's creators,"
said Shane proudly, carefully thinking out that last statement of
logic.
     "These people didn't create those machines.  Do you think we
should hold them all responsible for the actions of a few?"
     "This conversation has gone on long enough, sir," said
Shane.
     "I agree."  Carter promptly fired his laser pistol that he
had stealthily removed from its holster a few microns earlier.
     Shane collapsed to the ground.  Carter had set his weapon on
its lowest setting, wide dispersal but at this distance it had
left a small burn mark in Shane's chest.  Carter examined him and
decided that he would live.  Returning his weapon to its holster
he addressed the rest of Shane's group who had been watching
their discussion from a distance while rounding Chulka's people.
     "Sergeant Shane is here by charged with mutiny, crimes
against non-belligerents and conduct unbecoming a Colonial
warrior.  Does anyone disagree with these charges?"  No one
stirred and the rest of the men slowly lowered their weapons.
     "Good.  Release your prisoners and report back to the
shuttle at once!"
     The three men in Shane's security detachment looked at each
other.  Several microns passed and finally they began moving away
from the refugees and back to the shuttle.
     "Corporal," called out Carter to one of the men.  "Remove
Cadet Breen back to the shuttle."
     "Yes, sir.  What about Sergeant Shane?"
     "Get him out of my sight," said Carter.
     The three security men carefully picked up Breen and Shane
and began the trip up the slope and back to the shuttle.  Carter
watched them leave and turned back to the aliens, still grouped
together where they had been left.  He spotted Chulka out of the
corner of his eye and approached the leader of the camp.
     "Chulka, tell your people that they may return to their
dwellings."
     Chulka relayed the message to his people and the group
slowly dissipated until only Carter and Chulka remained outside.
     "I'm sorry about what has happened here.  I'm afraid that
your only source of power has been destroyed."
     Chulka simply nodded, accepting what had occurred as if
nothing had happened.
     "How will your people survive now?  Without heat you won't
be able to endure this planetoid's climate."
     "My race is strong, Carter," replied Chulka.  "We will
endure."
     "You keep saying that, sir.  But don't you want to do more
than just endure?  You realize that you could be a great asset to
our war effort.  Your knowledge of these machines and your
homeworld could tip the balance of power in our favor."
     Chulka merely gazed at him in silence.
     "Don't you understand, Chulka?  You can help destroy the
machines that have reduced you to this suffering.  You can have
your revenge and claim your world back for you own."
     "Carter, you do not understand our ways," said Chulka sadly,
or at least that was what Carter was interpreting the other
being's facial expressions.  "We do not deserve our homeworld
anymore.  As for the machines, they are our creations.  We cannot
destroy what we have sown.  To destroy them would be an even
greater wrong than creating them.  We must accept the
consequences of our actions."
     Carter couldn't help but admire their morality and
dedication, even if he didn't quite understand it.  These people
were a proud race.  It was a pity, he thought, that his people
had not met these creatures before their downfall.  If Chulka was
representative of the rest of their society, then they could have
learned a lot from these original Cylons.
     "Come inside, Carter," said Chulka breaking the silence.  "I
have something for you."
     Carter walked behind Chulka, following him into his hut.  He
was astonished that after all they had done to these people,
Chulka had something to offer him.

     "Five centons and closing," reported Corporal Vega.
     "Status on the antennae repairs," asked Nolan.
     "Repair teams are currently running a diagnostic on all
communications systems.  We should be able to contact Lieutenant
Carter after its completed."
     "To Hades with their scans.  Bring that system on line now!"
     "But sir, if there is a short somewhere, we could fry the
entire com net," said Vega.
     "Then fry it!  I want to talk to my men now!"
     "Yes, sir," said Vega as he relayed the Colonel's orders.
"Sir, repair teams estimate one hundred microns to bring it on
line."
     Nolan sank back in his chair, his fingers digging into the
hard fabric.  He was running out of time.  Should he risk the
lives of everyone of his crew just to save a few men?  Or maybe
that was what made him different from the machines he was
fighting, his inability to sacrifice lives.  That was what had
cost him his career, he thought to himself.  Why stop now.

     Chulka withdrew a small box from a trap door covering a
secret hole.  The box was made of a material Carter had never
seen before.  It was a dark green color with a rough texture.
Chulka opened the box and withdrew a cylindrical container.
Carefully, he handed it to Carter and indicated for him to open
it.  Carter was not sure what was inside but felt that he should
do what Chulka wished.  If this was a trap there wasn't a better
time to spring it with Carter feeling guilty about the damage
Shane had caused earlier.  He screwed off the top and looked
inside.  Puzzled, he withdrew several rolls of a paper like
material from inside and unravelled them to determine their
contents.
     "I don't understand?" said Carter in confusion.
     "This is our assistance in your war.  We are sorry that we
cannot help you any further.  The materials you hold," said
Chulka indicating the paper spread before him, "are plans for our
most powerful weapons.  And this," said Chulka pointing to one
particular schematic, "is the knowledge to build a far more
efficient laser pistol, one that will take much less time to
recharge."
     "I don't know what to say," said Carter humbly.
     "Say nothing.  This is our reparation for the suffering my
people have caused you.  We were once a proud and honorable race,
Carter.  We did not always make war on one another.  Please take
these so that we might help cleanse the blood stain that my
people have caused on the universe so that one day the Cylon name
will stand for honor instead of terror."

     "Sir, contacts are three centons and closing."
     "What about communications?" said Nolan.
     "Just coming back on line now, sir," said Vega excitedly.
     "Good, patch me through to Lieutenant Carter."
     "We've reached them, sir," said Vega a few microns later.
     "Put it on speakers."
     "This is Corporal Talon, sir."
     "Talon?  Where is Lieutenant Carter?"
     "He's still at the refugee camp, sir."
     "Well get him back right away.  We've only got microns
before a Cylon task force enters the area."
     "Yes, sir," replied Talon and then ended the connection.
     "Sir, Sergeant Thorpe confirming visual contact at the outer
perimeter.  He is requesting permission to engage."
     "Negative.  Have him report back immediately."
     "Yes, sir."
     "And Corporal, inform engine room to bring engines up to
maximum power."
     This was going to be close, he thought.  A few microns could
mean life or death in this case.  Nolan made his decision.  He
wasn't sure if it was the correct military action, but it was the
correct human action.  He would be damned if he became the enemy
he so hated.
     Nolan reached over and activated the shipwide communication
channel.  "Attention all hands, this is Colonel Nolan.  We are
currently tracking a multitude of inbound Cylon fighters.  At
this time we still have a team on the planetoid below so we are
not going to try to escape.  I repeat we are not going to
withdraw.  We will attempt to fight them off long enough for our
men to return safely.  I trust in your abilities and I am
confident that we will be successful.  All hands prepare for
extended battle.  Nolan out."
     The tension on the bridge just went a notch higher after his
announcement.  Everyone concentrated even more closely on their
systems, realizing that it would take the entire crew's utmost
effort to get them through this ordeal.
     "Sergeant," said Nolan softly.  "Status of our defense
systems."
     "All weapons are operating at sixty percent normal," replied
Corinth in an equally soft tone.  Nolan acknowledged that report
and stood in the center of the bridge, awaiting the impending
assault.

     "Lieutenant Carter," came Corporal Talon's voice over his
portable communicator.
     "Carter here," he replied.
     "Sir, we've reestablished contact with the Hermes.  They
request our immediate liftoff.  A Cylon strike force is on its
way."
     Carter looked up after hearing that last statement and
stared right at Chulka, knowing what was about to happen.
     "Sir," came Talon's voice after a long pause.
     "Acknowledged, Corporal.  Has Cadet Breen recovered yet?"
     "Yes, sir.  He's waking up now."
     "Good, then have him cycle up the engines.  I'm on my way."
Carter turned to Chulka one last time.  "Chulka, your enemies are
on their way.  This is your last chance to escape."
     "We each have our respective destinies," said Chulka, or at
least that's what Carter thought he was trying to say.  The
translation was still rough but he was beginning to understand
this being before him and had a good idea what he meant.
     "Then I wish you well.  I suggest that you take cover in the
hills nearby, it will take them longer to find you there."
     "Thank you, Carter.  It has been good to see you.  Perhaps
in the future. . .?"
     "Perhaps," said Carter.  "Farewell," he said and turned to
walk away.  As he made his way back up the trail, he could see
the pinpoints of light representing the Cylon taskforce moving
over the atmosphere above.
     "That close?" said Carter to himself as he broke into a dead
run back to the shuttle.

     "Entering firing range," said Corinth.
     "All batteries commence fire," ordered Nolan.
     The defense systems of the Hermes sprang to life, lighting
up the night sky with streams of laser fire.  The first wave of
Cylon Stingers was destroyed on impact with the remaining
fighters veering off to probe weaknesses in the Hermes defenses.
The Stingers swarmed over the beleaguered ship, testing the
mettle of the gunners who carried the lives of everyone aboard on
their shoulders.  One by one, a Stinger would break through the
crossfire and score a hit on the Hermes hull.  But just as
frequent, the Hermes gunners would take out a Cylon fighter,
bringing the battle back to a standstill.
     "Sir, we can't hold out for long.  Our men will tire and
with a Cylon baseship in the vicinity. . ."
     "I know, Sergeant," said Nolan in frustration.  "We've got
to give them more time."

     "Come on, Breen," prodded the two security men except Talon.
"Take off!"
     "I'm not leaving until Lieutenant Carter is on board,"
responded Breen defiantly.
     "You heard what the Colonel said," pleaded Marko.  "The
Cylons are here and if we don't return then the Hermes will be
destroyed!"
     "We're not leaving, Corporal!"
     "Since when does a cadet outrank a corporal?" said Loc,
coming to his friend's aide.
     "When the corporal is behaving like a coward," returned
Breen, wishing he could take back the words right after he said
them.
     Marko lunged at Breen but was blocked halfway there by an
extended fist.  The fist connected to Marko's jawbone, sending
the man down to the ground.
     "We wait," said Talon.  Loc stared him for several microns,
deciding whether or not to challenge Talon's command.  He thought
better of it and knelt down to inspect Marko's unmoving form.
     "There he is!" shouted Breen.
     Carter could be seen running over the slope and sprinting
across the even ground to the shuttle.
     "Cadet, start your engines," said Talon with a smile across
his face.
     "Yes, sir."
     The shuttle came to life as Breen powered up all the
systems.  Carter made it to the shuttle just microns later and
the last humans on this world departed for their home in the sky.

     "Colonel," called out Vega.  "Lieutenant Carter's party has
lifted off and are en route."
     "Move us between them and the bulk of the Cylon force.  Try
to lay down some cover fire for them."
     Nolan felt the ship moving towards the asteroid below.  Even
with the Hermes help, it would still take a miracle for them to
get aboard safely.
     "Sir," announced Vega a second time.  "I'm reading a signal.
Nothing like I've ever heard before."
     "Origin?"
     "It's coming from the planetoid below."
     "Is it the shuttle?" said Nolan, wondering why they would
send an unencoded signal.
     "No, sir.  It appears to be coming from the alien campsite."
     "Good Lord," said Nolan in disbelief.  "Don't they know what
they're doing?  They're leading the Cylons right to them. . ."
Nolan stopped and thought for a moment.  The conclusion he came
too was almost beyond belief.
     "They're sacrificing themselves," muttered Nolan under his
breath.
     "Colonel?" said Corinth.
     "Move towards the shuttle, but put as much distance as you
can between us and the settlement."
     "Yes, sir," said Corinth, not quite understanding what the
Colonel Nolan was doing.
     "If I'm right, then those aliens have just bought us the
time we need."  Then more solemnly.  "With their lives."

     "Lieutenant, I think you'd better take a look at this."
     "What is it Breen?" replied Carter.
     "I'm reading a beacon of some kind, emanating from the alien
settlement."
     "What?"
     "A definite patter in regular pulses," supplied Breen.
     "Oh no!" said Carter in shock as he put the puzzle together.
"He's drawing them to him."
     "But why, sir?"
     "To save our lives, Cadet."
     Carter looked below at the rapidly fading planetoid.  He
could see the fire still burning where their thermal generator
had once been.  All seemed tranquil, for now.
     "I'm reading several objects above us, changing course."
     It was about to happen, thought Carter, and there was
nothing he could do to prevent it.
     "Approaching the planetoid now, entering the outer
atmosphere," continued Breen.
     He could see them now.  Pinpoint lights high up in the night
sky, descending towards the surface.  They continued downward,
getting closer and closer to the defenseless inhabitants.
     "Firing," said the cadet softly.
     The night sky lit up with streaks of brilliantly colored
light.  The lasers hit the ground showering out sparks as they
impacted on the surface.  The dwellings were their first target.
Systematically, the Cylons destroyed every hut there was with
machine efficiency.  The shuttle was too high now to witness
anymore of the battle but Carter could imagine the rest.  He
could picture in his mind the refugees, scattering and running
for whatever cover they could find.  He could visualize the
Stingers landing on the surface and the machine warriors exiting
their craft to finish their destruction personally.  They would
hunt them down, one by one until they were sure the entire world
had been cleansed of organic infection.
     The shuttle was now in the clutches of the vacuum and making
its way to the Hermes, still defending itself from a few Cylon
Stingers that had remained to continue the attack on the Colonial
ship.  Using the cover fire that the Hermes provided, the shuttle
glided safely into the landing bay, returning home after an
extended tour of duty.

     "They're in, Colonel," reported Corinth.
     "Get us out of here, flank speed," ordered Nolan.
     The Hermes roared to life, rapidly accelerating to maximum
speed and leaving an obscure asteroid far behind.  The remaining
Cylon fighters attempted to pursue but were soon outdistanced by
the Hermes as it made a break through the asteroid field.
     "Sir, Cylon baseship off the port bow!"
     "Concentrate all batteries to port.  Fire at will!" ordered
Nolan.
     The Hermes sailed past the unsuspecting Cylon baseship,
blasting the enemy warship with its portside armament and then
continuing on its escape vector out of the asteroid field.  The
Cylon ship took several blows from the attack and entered into
orbit above the planetoid, unable to pursue the fleeing Colonial
scout ship.

     "Report," said Tiamat from his command console.
     "Moderate damage to our armor.  Colonial warship is
continuing on its present course."
     "Continue on course to the asteroid.  Prepare for orbital
bombardment.  Leave no infidel alive!"
     "By your command."
     The Cylon warship entered orbit around the planetoid,
preparing to reek its vengeance on the creatures below.  On the
surface below, the last remnants of a dying race slowly winked
out of existence.

     "Come in," said Colonel Nolan from inside his quarters.  He
was sitting behind a desk, filling out another report.  It was
amazing that Command needed so many reports to understand an
event that transpires away from their attention.  How many times
did he have to say that he had engaged Cylon forces before the
bureaucrats at CORE Command sent reinforcements.
     Answering the summons, Lieutenant Carter entered his
commander's quarters.  He saw Nolan sitting behind his desk in
the corner of this cramped room, the most luxurious on the ship,
and stood in front of the desk waiting to be noticed.
     "Carter," said Nolan.  "Good, I'm glad you dropped by."
     "I came as soon as my duty shift allowed, sir."
     "I wanted to discuss with you the events you reported on.  I
wondered if you could provide me with more information on the
Cylons you met, besides the facts that you relayed in your
official account."
     "Well, sir, I only really communicated with one Cylon, their
leader Chulka.  He was a proud and honorable individual, refusing
all attempts at rescue out of a debt of honor.  In the end, he
provided us with the plans I brought back, and made sure that we
were able to deliver them by buying us time with their very
lives.  He sacrificed his own people for us, sir.  The last of
their race.  Can you imagine that?"
     "I dare say I couldn't unless I hadn't seen it with my own
eyes," said Nolan in remorse.  "To commit self-inflicted genocide
for a cause is worthy of being noted.  I shall make every attempt
to see that these beings are rewarded for their actions, even if
it would be posthumously."
     "That will be one tough sell, sir," said Carter with regret.
"I don't think Command can be persuaded to decorate the creators
of our enemies."
     "No, I suppose they won't.  But it is the effort that is
important, not the results," said Nolan nostalgically.  "Which
reminds me, Lieutenant.  I have special orders from Command aimed
specifically at you."
     "For me, Colonel?"
     "Yes, it appears that you have regained their favor.  I have
orders to send you out on the nearest transport back to Hasari
Prime.  There, you will assume command of Omega Squadron.
Congratulations, Captain."
     "Thank you, sir," said Carter, still dumbfounded over what
Nolan had just said.  They had discussed their mutual tour of
exile, as they had come to call their service aboard the Hermes,
for some time, but neither had expected that one or the other
would rejoin the front lines.
     "It appears that they are preparing for the final defense of
the Hasaris.  Command estimates a massive Cylon assault on their
homeworld in the next ten sectons."
     "That's incredible.  This could be the decisive battle for
the war!"
     "I don't share in your optimism about the end of our
conflict, Carter.  But I do agree that this will be a key turning
point in our war against the Cylons.  I envy your chance at
partaking in history, Captain.  Use it well."
     "I will, sir," said Carter as he turned to leave.  "And,
sir?"
     "Yes, Captain," said Nolan as he looked up from the report
he had just begun reading.
     "I'd like to say that it was an honor serving under your
command.  I only hope that fate is as fortunate with your career
as it has been with mine."
     "So do I, Carter.  So do I"
     Carter left the room to prepare for his new assignment,
leaving Colonel Nolan in deep reflection, wondering if he would
ever get another chance as Carter had to win glory for his
homeworld on the battlefront.
