From: Dictionary of American Fighting Ships, Vol. A, 1991, NavyDepartment, Office 
of the Chief of Naval Operations, Naval HistoryDivision, Washington, D.C.ANTIETAM 
(CV-36)dp. 27,100;l. 888' 0";b. 93' 0";ew. 147' 6";dr. 28' 7";s. 32.7 k. (tl.);cpl. 
2,448;a. 80+ ac., 12 5", 72 40-mm.;cl. ESSEXThe second ANTIETAM (CV-36) was 
laid down on 15 March 1943 by thePhiladelphia Navy Yard; launched on 20 August 
1944 sponsored by Mrs.Millard E. Tydings, the wife of Senator Tydings of Maryland; 
andcommissioned on 28 January 1945, Capt. James R. Tague in command.The 
aircraft carrier completed fitting out at Philadelphia until 2 Marchwhen she got 
underway for her shakedown cruise. The ship arrived inHampton Roads on the 5th 
and conducted operations from Norfolk until 22March when she stood out of 
Chesapeake Bay bound for Trinidad in theBritish West Indies. At the conclusion of 
her shakedown cruise, ANTIETAMreturned to Philadelphia on 28 April to begin 
post-shakedownavailability. She completed repairs on 19 May and departed 
Philadelphiathat same day. After a three-day stop at Norfolk, the warship 
resumedher voyage to the Panama Canal in company with HIGBEE (DD-806), 
GEORGEW. INGRAM (APD-43), and IRA JEFFERY (APD-44). She arrived at Cristobalon 
31 May, transited the canal the next day, and continued her voyage upthe coast to 
San Diego. She stopped at San Diego from 10 to 13 Junebefore beginning the first 
leg of her transpacific voyage. ANTIETAMarrived in Pearl Harbor on the 19th and 
remained m the Hawaiian Islandsconducting training missions until 12 August. On 
that day, she shaped acourse for the western Pacific.Three days out of Oahu, she 
received word of the Japanese capitulationand the consequent cessation of 
hostilities. Thus, by the time of herarrival in Eniwetok Atoll on the 19th, her 
mission changed from combatto occupation support duty. On the 21st she exited 
the lagoon in companywith CABOT (CVL-28) and a screen of destroyers bound for 
Japan. Enroute, she suffered some internal damage which forced her into port 
atApra Harbor Guam, for inspections. The inspection party deemed thedamage 
minimal; and the carrier remained operational, resuming hercourse on the 27th. By 
that time, however, her destination had beenchanged to the coast of the Asian 
mainland. She stopped at Okinawabetween 30 August and 1 September and arrived 
in Chinese waters nearShanghai the following day.The aircraft carrier remained in 
the Far East for a little more thanthree years. The Yellow Sea constituted her 
primary theater ofoperations while her air group provided support for the 
Alliedoccupation of North China, Manchuria, and Korea. During the latterstages of 
that assignment, her airmen conducted surveillance missions inthat area as a 
result of the civil war in China between communist andnationalist factions which 
later resulted in the expulsion of ChiangKai-shek's forces from mainland China and 
the establishment of Mao Tse-tung's communist People Republic of China. 
Throughout the period,however, she did depart the Yellow Sea on occasion for 
visits to Japan,the Philippines, Okinawa, and the Marianas. Early in 1949, she 
concludedher mission in the Orient and headed back to the United States 
fordeactivation.ANTIETAM remained in reserve at Alameda, Calif., until communist 
forcesfrom the north invaded South Korea in the summer of 1950. She 
beganreactivation preparations on 6 December and went back into commission 
on17 January 1951, Capt. George J. Dufek in command. Initially, thecarrier 
conducted shakedown training and carrier qualifications alongthe California coast, 
first out of Alameda and-after 14 May-out of SanDiego. She made one voyage to 
Pearl Harbor and back to San Diego in Julyand August before departing the latter 
port on 8 September and headingfor the Far East. ANTIETAM arrived in the Far East 
later that fall and,by late November, began the only combat deployment of her 
career. Duringthat tour, she made four cruises with Task Force (TF) 77, in the 
combatzone off the coast of Korea. In between fighting assignments, shereturned 
to Yokosuka, Japan. During each of those periods, her air groupcarried out a variety 
of missions in support of United Nations forcescombating North Korean aggression. 
Those missions included combat airpatrol logistics interdiction-particularly 
against railroad and highwaytraffic-reconnaissance antisubmarine patrols, and 
night hecklermissions. Between late November 1951 and mid-March 1952, 
ANTIETAM's airgroup flew nearly 6,000 sorties of all types. She returned to 
Yokosukaon 21 March 1952 at the conclusion of her fourth cruise with TF 77 
tobegin preparations for her voyage back to the United States.The aircraft carrier 
returned home in April and rejoined the PacificReserve Fleet briefly. She was 
reactivated later that summer and, inAugust, transited the Panama Canal to join 
the Atlantic Fleet. InSeptember, the warship entered the New York Naval Shipyard 
for majoralterations. In October, she was redesignated an attack aircraftcarrier, 
CVA-36. In December ANTIETAM emerged from the yard as America'sfirst angled-
deck aircraft carrier. She operated out of Quonset Point,R.I., until the beginning of 
1955. During the intervening years, sheparticipated in numerous fleet and 
independent ship's exercises. AfterAugust 1953-at which time she was 
redesignated and antisubmarine warfare(ASW) carrier, CVS-36-ANTIETAM 
concentrated upon honing herhunter/killer skills. In January 1955, she embarked 
upon a voyage to theMediterranean Sea where she served with the 6th Fleet until 
March.Resuming duty with the Atlantic Fleet ASW forces, she operated along 
theeastern seaboard until the fall of 1956. In October of that year, shecruised to 
the waters of the eastern Atlantic for NATO ASW exercises andgoodwill visits to 
ports in Allied countries. While the carrier was inRotterdam, the Suez crisis broke 
out in the eastern Mediterranean.ANTIETAM cut short her visit to the Netherlands 
and headed for the"middle sea" to bolster the 6th Fleet during the evacuation of 
Americancitizens from Alexandria, Egypt. At the end of that assignment, 
sheconducted ASW training exercises with Italian naval officers embarkedbefore 
returning to Quonset Point on 22 December.After resuming operations along the 
eastern seaboard early in 1957,ANTIETAM was assigned on 21 April 1957 to 
training duty with the NavalAir Training Station, Pensacola, Fla. Mayport however, 
served as herhome port because ships of her draft could not then enter port 
atPensacola. For almost two years the aircraft carrier operated out ofMayport 
training new Navy pilots and conducting tests on new aviationequipment-most 
noteworthy on the Bell automatic landing system duringAugust of 195i. She also 
participated in annual Naval Academy midshipmencruises each summer.In January 
1959, after the deepening of the channel into Pensacola hadbeen completed, 
ANTIETAM's home port was changed from Mayport toPensacola. For the remainder 
of her active career, the carrier operatedout of Pensacola as an aviation training 
ship. On two occasions, sheprovided humanitarian services to victims of hurricane 
damage. The firstcame in September of 1961 when she rushed to the Texas coast 
to providesupplies and medical assistance to the victims of hurricane Carla. 
Thesecond came just over a month later when she carried medical 
supplies,doctors, nurses, and other medical personnel to British Honduras to 
helpwith the victims of hurricane Hattie.  Otherwise, she spent the finalfour years 
of her naval career in routine naval aviation training dutyout of Pensacola.  On 23 
October 1952, ANTIETAM was relieved byLEXINGTON (CVS-16) as aviation training 
ship at Pensacola and was placedin commission, in reserve, on 7 January 1963.  
Berthed at Philadelphia,Pa., she remained in reserve until May of 1973 when her 
name was struckfrom the Navy list.  On 28 February 1974, she was sold to the 
UnionMinerals & Alloys Corp. for scrapping.ANTIETAM (CV-36) earned two battle 
stars for service in the Koreanconflict.

