

UTAH (BB-31)
Length Overall: 521'6"
Extreme Beam: 88'3"
Normal Displacement: Tons: 21,825
Mean Draft: 28'4"
Designed Complement: Off.: 60
			Enl.: 941
Armament:
 Main:
	(10) 12"/45
 Secondary:
	(16)  5"/51
 Torpedo Tubes: (2) 21" submerged
1917
 Main:
	(10) 12"/45
 Secondary:
	(12)  5"/51
		(2)  3"/50 AA
 Torpedo Tubes: (2) 21" submerged
1922
 Main:
	(10) 12"/45
 Secondary:
	(16)  5"/51
		(8)  3"/50 AA
 Torpedo Tubes: (2) 21" submerged
1926
 Main:
	(10) 12"/45
 Secondary:
	(12)  5"/51
		(8)  3"/50 AA
 Torpedo Tubes: (2) 21" submerged
1931
 None
1939
 Main:
		(4)  5"/25 AA
1941
 Main:
		(4)  5"/38 AA
		(4)  5"/25 AA
Armor : Belt: 11"
			Turrets: 12"
			Deck: 3" (aft)
Conning Tower: 11 1/2"
Designed Speed: 20.75
Designed Shaft Horsepower: 28,000 
Engines: Manufacturer: Parsons (NYSB) 
Type: Turbine, direct drive
Screws: 4
Boilers: Manufacturer: BW
				No.: 12
Fuel (coal): Tons: 2520
Drive: TD
class. FLORIDA
UTAH (Battleship No. 31) was laid down on 9 March 1909 at Camden, N.J., by 
the New York Shipbuilding Co.; launched on 23 December 1909; sponsored by 
Miss Mary Alice Spry, daughter of Governor William Spry of Utah; and 
commissioned at the Philadelphia Navy Yard on 31 August 1911, Capt. 
William S. Benson in command.
After her shakedown cruise a voyage that took her to Hampton Roads, Va.; 
Santa Rosa Island and Pensacola, Fla.; Galveston, Tex.; Kingston and 
Portland Bight, Jamaica; and Guantanamo Bay, Cuba-UTAH was assigned to 
the Atlantic Fleet in March 1912. She operated with the Fleet early that 
spring, conducting exercises in gunnery and torpedo defense, before she 
entered the New York Navy Yard on 16 April for an overhaul.
Departing New York on 1 June, UTAH briefly visited Hampton Roads and then 
steamed to Annapolis, Md. where she arrived on the 6th. There, she 
embarked
Naval Academy midshipmen and got underway on the 10th for the Virginia 
Capes and the open Atlantic. She conducted a midshipmen training cruise 
off the New England seaboard well into the summer before disembarking 
her contingent of officers-to-be back at Annapolis on 24 and 25 August. 
Soon thereafter, the battleship headed for the Southern Drill Grounds to 
conduct gunnery exercises.
For a little over two years, the dreadnought maintained that schedule of 
operations off the eastern seaboard, ranging from the New England coast to 
Cuban waters. During that time, she made one cruise to European waters, 
visiting Villefranche, France, from 8 to 30 November 1918.

UTAH began the year 1914 at the New York Navy Yard and sailed south on 5 
January. After stopping at Hampton Roads, she reached Cuban waters later 
in the month for torpedo and small arms exercises. However, due to tension 
in Mexico, UTAH sailed for Mexican waters in early February and reached 
Vera Cruz on the 16th. She operated off that port until getting underway 
for Tampico on 9 April with several hundred refugees embarked.  Soon 
thereafter, it was learned that a German steamship, SS YPIRANGA, was 
bound for Vera Cruz with a shipment of arms and munitions earmarked for 
the dictator Victoriano Huerta. UTAH received orders to search for the ship 
and put to sea and reached Vera Cruz on the 16th. When it appeared that the 
shipment might be landed, the Navy took steps to take the customs house 
at Vera Cruz and stop the delivery. Accordingly, plans were drawn up for a 
landing at Vera Cruz, to commence on 21 April 1914.
UTAH consequently landed her "battalion"-17 officers and 367 sailors 
under the command of Lt. Guy W. S. Castle-as well as her Marine 
detachment, which formed part of the improvised "First Marine Brigade," 
made up of detachments of marines from the other ships that had arrived 
to show American determination. In the ensuing fighting, in which the men 
of UTAH's bluejacket battalion distinguished themselves, seven won 
medals of honor. Those seven included Lt. Castle, the battalion commander; 
company commanders Ens. Oscar C. Badger and Ens. Paul F. Foster; section 
leaders, Chief Turret Captains Niels Drustrup and Abraham Desomer; Chief 
Gunner George Bradley; and Boatswain's Mate Henry N. Nickerson.
UTAH remained at Vera Cruz for almost two months before returning north 
to the New York Navy Yard in late June for an overhaul. Over the next three 
years, the battleship operated on a regular routine of battle practices and 
exercises from off the eastern seaboard into the Caribbean, as the United 
States readied its forces for the possible entry of the United States into 
the worldwide war that broke out in July 1914.
After the United States finally declared war on 6 April 1917, UTAH 
operated in the waters of the Chesapeake Bay as an engineering and 
gunnery training ship and continued that duty until 30 August 1918, when 
she sailed for the British Isles with Vice Admiral Henry T. Mayo, 
Commander in Chief, United States Atlantic Fleet, embarked.
Fears of possible attacks by German heavy units upon the large convoys 
crossing the Atlantic with troops and munitions for the western front 
prompted the dispatch, to European waters, of a powerful force of 
American dreadnoughts to Irish waters. UTAH-as part of that movement-
reached Brerehaven, Bantry Bay, Ireland, on 10 September. There, she 
became the flagship of Rear Admiral Thomas S. Rodgers, Commander, 
Battleship Division 6. Until the signing of the armistice on 11 November 
1918, UTAH, along with the sisterships OKLAHOMA (Battleship No. 37) and 
NEVADA (Battleship No. 36), operated from Bantry Bay, covering the Allied 
convoys approaching the British Isles, ready to deal with any surface 
threat that the German Navy could hurl at the valuable transports and 
supply ships.
After the cessation of hostilities, UTAH visited Portland, England, and 
later served as part of the honor escort for the transport GEORGE 
WASHINGTON (Id. No. 3018), as that ship bore President Woodrow Wilson 
into the harbor of Brest, France, on 13 December 1918. The following day, 
UTAH turned homeward and reached New York on Christmas Day 1918.
UTAH remained at anchor in the North River; off New York City, until 30 
January 1919. During that time, she half-masted her colors at 1440 on 7 
January due to the death of former President Theodore Roosevelt and, on 
the 8th, fired salutes at half-hour intervals throughout the day in memory 
of the great American statesman.
UTAH carried out a regular routine of battle practices and maneuvers, 
ranging from the New England coast to the Caribbean, into mid-1921. 
During that time, she was classified as BB-31 on 17 July 1920, during the 
Navy-wide assignment of hull numbers.
Ultimately departing Boston on 9 July 1921, UTAH proceeded via Lisbon 
Portugal, and reached Cherbourg, France, soon thereafter. There, UTAH 
became the flagship for the United States naval forces in European waters. 
She "showed the flag" at the principal Atlantic coast ports of Europe and in 
the Mediterranean until relieved by PITTSBURGH (CA-4) in October 1922.
Returning to the United States on 21 October 1922, UTAH then became the 
flagship of Battleship Division (BatDiv) 6, United States Scouting Fleet and 
operated with the Scouting Fleet over the next three and one-half years.
Late in 1924, UTAH was chosen to carry the United States diplomatic 
mission to the centennial celebration of the Battle of Ayacucho (9 
December 1824), the decisive action in the Peruvian struggle for 
independence. Designated as flagship for the special squadron assigned to 
represent the United States at the festivities, UTAH departed New York 
City on 22 November 1924 with General of the Armies John J. Pershing, 
USA, and former congressman, the Honorable F. C. Hicks, embarked, and 
arrived at Callao on 9 December.
UTAH disembarked General Pershing and the other members of the mission 
on Christmas 1924, so that the general and his mission could visit other 
South American cities inland on their goodwill tour. Meanwhile, UTAH, in 
the weeks that followed, called at the Chilean ports of Punta Arenas and 
Valparaiso before she rounded Cape Horn and met General Pershing at 
Montevideo, Uruguay. Reembarking the general and his party there, the 
battleship then visited in succession: Rio de Janeiro Brazil; La Guaira, 
Venezuela; and Havana, Cuba, before ending her diplomatic voyage at New 
York City on 18 March 1926. UTAH spent subsequent summers of 1925 and 
1926 with the Midshipman Practice Squadron and, after disembarking her 
midshipmen at the conclusion of the 1925 cruise, entered the Boston Navy 
Yard and was decommissioned on 31 October 1925 for modernization. 
During that period of alterations and repairs, the ship's "cage" mainmast 
was replaced by a lighter pole mast; she was fitted to burn oil instead of 
coal as fuel; and her armament was modified to reflect the increased 
concern over antiaircraft defense. Interestingly, UTAH and her sistership 
FLORIDA (BB-30) never received the more modern "tripod" masts fitted to 
other classes.
UTAH was placed back in commission on 1 December 1925 and, after local 
operations with the Scouting Fleet, departed Hampton Roads on 21 
November 1928, bound for South America. Reaching Montevideo on 18 
December, she there embarked President-elect and Mrs. Herbert C. Hoover; 
the Honorable Henry T. Fletcher, Ambassador to Italy; and members of the 
press. UTAH transported the President-elect's party to Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil, between 21 and 23 December, and then continued her homeward 
voyage with Mr. Hoover embarked. En route, the President-elect inspected 
the battleship's crew while at sea, before the ship reached Hampton 
Roads on 6 January 1929.
However, UTAH's days as a battleship were numbered. Under the terms of 
the 1922 Washington Naval Treaty, UTAH was selected for conversion to a 
mobile target, in place of the former battleship NORTH DAKOTA; and, on 1 
July 1931, UTAH's classification was changed to AG-16. Her conversion-
carried out at the Norfolk Navy Yard-included the installation of a radio-
control apparatus. After having been decommissioned for the duration of 
the conversion, UTAH was recommissioned at Norfolk on 1 April 1992, 
Comdr. Randall Jacobs in command.
UTAH departed Norfolk on 7 April to train her engineers in using the new 
installations and for trials of her radio gear by which the ship could be 
controlled at varying rates of speed and changes of course maneuvers that 
a ship would conduct in battle. Her electric motors, operated by signals 
from the controlling ship, opened and closed throttle valves, moved her 
steering gear, and regulated the supply of oil to her boilers. In addition, a 
Sperry gyro pilot kept the ship on course.
Returning to port on 21 April, UTAH passed her radio control trials off the 
Virginia capes on 6 May. On 1 June, UTAH ran three hours under radio 
control, with all engineering stations manned; over the next two days, she 
made two successful runs, each of four hours duration, during which no 
machinery was touched by human hands. Observers, however-two in each 
fore room and two in each boiler room-kept telephone information and 
recorded data.
Her trials completed, UTAH departed Norfolk on 9 June. After transiting the 
Panama Canal she reached San Pedro, Calif., on 30 June, reporting for duty 
with Training Squadron 1, Base Force, United States Fleet. She conducted 
her first target duty, for cruisers of the Fleet, on 26 July, and later, on 2 
August, conducted rehearsal runs for NEVADA (BB-36), UTAH being 
controlled from HOVEY (DD-208) and TALBOT (DD-114).
Over the next nine years, the erstwhile battleship performed a vital 
service to the fleet as a mobile target, contributing realism to the training 
of naval aviators in dive, torpedo, and high level bombing. Thus, she greatly 
aided the development of tactics in those areas. On one occasion, she even 
served as a troop transport, embarking 223 officers and men of the Fleet 
Marine Force at Sand Island, Midway, for amphibious operations at Hilo Bay, 
Hawaii, as part of Fleet Problem XVI in the early summer of 1936. She then 
transported the marines from Hawaii to San Diego, Calif., disembarking 
them there on 12 June 1936.
That same month, June 1935, saw the establishment of a fleet machine gun 
school on board UTAH while she continued her mission as a mobile target. 
The former dreadnought received her first instructors on board in August 
1936, and the first students drawn from the ships' companies of RALEIGH 
(CL-7), CONCORD (CL10), OMAHA (CL-4), MEMPHIS (CL-13), MILWAUKEE (CL-
5), and RANGER (CV-4)-reported aboard for training on 20 September. 
Subsequently, during the 1936 and 1937 gunnery year, UTAH was fitted 
with a new quadruple 1.1-inch machine gun mount for experimental test 
and development by the machine gun school. Some of the first tests of that 
type of weapon were conducted on board.
UTAH-besides serving as a realistic target for exercises involving carrier-
based planes-also towed targets during battle practices conducted by the 
Fleet's battleships and took part in the yearly "fleet problems." She 
transited the Panama Canal on 9 
January 1939 to participate in Fleet Problem XX-part of the maneuvers 
observed personally by President Franklin D. Roosevelt from the heavy 
cruiser Houston (CA-30).
After providing mobile target services for the submarines of Submarine 
Squadron 6 in the late autumn and early winter of 1939, UTAH devoted the 
eight months that followed to special machine gun practices. The following 
summer, UTAH sailed for the Hawaiian Islands reaching Pearl Harbor on 1 
August 1940, and fired advanced antiaircraft gunnery practice in the 
Hawaiian operating area until 14 December 1940, when she sailed for the 
west coast, returning to Long Beach four days before Christmas.
For the next two months, UTAH operated as a mobile bombing target off 
San Clemente Island, Calif., for planes from Patrol Wing 1, and from the 
carriers LEXINGTON (CV-2), SARATOGA (CV-3), and ENTERPRISE (CV-6). 
UTAH returned to Hawaiian waters on l April 1941, embarking gunners for 
the Advanced Antiaircraft Gun School, men drawn from WEST VIRGINIA 
(BB-48), OKLAHOMA (BB-37) COLORADO (BB-45), PHOENIX (CL-46), 
NASHVILLE (CL-43), PHILADELPHIA (CL-41), and NEW ORLEANS (CA-32).
Over the weeks that followed, she trained her embarked gunner students in 
control and loading drills for the 5-inch batteries, firing runs on radio-
controlled drone targets as well as .50caliber and 1.1-inch firing on drones 
and balloons. UTAH put into Los Angeles harbor on 20 May and there 
embarked Fleet Marine Force passengers for transportation to Bremerton, 
Wash. Putting the marines ashore a week later, the ship entered the Puget 
Sound Navy Yard on 31 May 1941.
During the ensuing overhaul, UTAH received repairs and alterations 
designed to make her a more effective gunnery training ship. The 
alterations included the addition of 5inch/38-caliber guns in single 
mounts with gunshields-similar to those fitted on the more modern types 
of destroyers then in service. She also lost her prewar colors, being 
repainted in overall measure one camouflage-dark gray with pale gray tops. 
With war paint thus donned, UTAH sailed for Hawaiian waters on 14 
September, after visits to Port Townsend, Wash., and San Francisco and 
San Pedro, Calif. She arrived at Pearl Harbor soon thereafter and carried 
out antiaircraft training and target duties through the late autumn.
UTAH completed an advanced antiaircraft gunnery cruise in Hawaiian 
waters shortly before she returned to Pearl Harbor in early December 
1941, mooring off Ford Island in berth F-11. On the morning of 7 December 
1941, the senior officer on board-the captain and executive officer were 
ashore on leave-was Lt. Comdr. Solomon S. Isquith, the engineer officer.
Shortly before 0800, men topside noted three planes-taken for American 
planes on maneuvers-heading in a northerly direction from the harbor 
entrance. They made a low dive at the southern end of Ford Island-where 
the seaplane hangers were situated-and began dropping bombs.
The attack on the fleet at Pearl Harbor lasted a little under two hours, but 
for UTAH, it was over in a few minutes. At 0801, soon after sailors had 
begun raising the colors at the ship's fantail, the erstwhile battleship took 
a torpedo hit forward, and immediately started to list to port.
As the ship began to roll ponderously over on her beam ends, 6by-12-inch 
timbers-placed on the decks to cushion them against the impact of the 
bombs used during the ship's latest stint as a 
mobile target-began to shift, hampering the efforts of the crew to abandon 
ship. Below, men headed topside while they could. One however, Chief 
Watertender Peter Tomich, remained below, making sure that the boilers 
were secured and that all men had gotten out of the engineering spaces. 
Another man, Fireman John B. Vaessen, USNR, remained at his post in the 
dynamo room, making sure that the ship had enough power to keep her 
lights going as long as possible.
Comdr. Isquith made an inspection to make sure men were out and nearly 
became trapped himself. As the ship began to turn over, he found an escape 
hatch blocked. While he was attempting to escape through a porthole, a 
table upon which he was standingimpelled by the ever-increasing list of 
the ship-slipped out from beneath him. fortunately, a man outside grabbed 
Isquith's arm and pulled him through at the last instant.
At 0812, the mooring lines snapped, and UTAH rolled over on her beam 
ends; her survivors struck out for shore, some taking shelter on the 
mooring quays since Japanese strafers were active.
Shortly after most of the men had reached shore, Comdr. Isquith, and 
others, heard a knocking from within the overturned ship's hull. Although 
Japanese planes were still strafing the area, Isquith called for volunteers 
to return to the hull and investigate the tapping. Obtaining a cutting torch 
from the nearby RALEIGH (CL-7)-herself fighting for survival after taking 
early torpedo hits-the men went to work.
As a result of the persistence shown by Machinist S. A. Szymanski; Chief 
Machinist's Mate Terrance MacSelwiney, USNR; and two others whose 
names were unrecorded, 10 men clambered from a would-be tomb. The last 
man out was Fireman Vaessen, who had made his way to the bottom of the 
ship when she capsized, bearing a flashlight and wrench.
UTAH was declared "in ordinary" on 29 December 1941 and was placed 
under the control of the Pearl Harbor Base Force. Partially righted to clear 
an adjacent berth, she was then declared "out of commission, not in 
service," on 5 September 1944. UTAH's name was struck from the Navy list 
on 13 November 1944. Her partially submerged hulk still remains, rusting, 
at Pearl Harbor with an unknown number of men trapped inside.
Of UTAH's complement, 30 officers and 431 enlisted men survived the 
ship's loss; 6 officers and 58 men died-four of the latter being recovered 
and interred ashore. Chief Watertender Tomich received the Medal of Honor 
posthumously for his selfless act in ensuring the safety of others.
UTAH (AG-16) received one battle star for her World War II service.

