From: DICTIONARY OF AMERICAN NAVAL FIGHTING SHIPS, James L. 
Mooney, ed., Naval Historical Center, Department of the Navy, 
Washington, DC., 1969
HORNET CV-8
dp. 19,800;
l. 809'9";
e. w. 144';
d. 21' 8";
s. 33 k.;
cpl. 1,889;
a. 8 6", 16 1.1 mg.;
class. HORNET
The seventh HORNET (CV-8) was launched 14 December 1940 by the Newport 
News Ship Building & Dry Dock Co., Newport News, Va.; sponsored by Mrs. 
Frank M. Knox, wife of the Secretary of the Navy; and commissioned at 
Norfolk 20 October 1941, Captain Marc A. Mitscher in command.
During the uneasy period before Pearl Harbor, HORNET trained out of Norfolk. 
A hint of a future mission occurred 2 February 1942 when HORNET departed 
Norfolk with two Army B-25 medium bombers on deck. Once at sea, the 
planes were launched to the surprise and amazement of HORNET's crew. Her 
men were unaware of the meaning of this experiment, as HORNET returned to 
Norfolk, prepared to leave for combat, and on 4 March sailed for the West 
Coast via the Panama Canal.
HORNET arrived San Francisco 20 March. With her own planes on the hangar 
deck, she loaded 16 Army B-25 bombers on the flight deck. Under the 
command of Lieutenant Colonel James H. Doolittle 70 officers and 64 
enlisted men reported aboard. In company of escort ships HORNET departed 
San Francisco 2 April and embarked on her mission under sealed orders. That 
afternoon Captain Mitscher informed his men of their mission: a bombing 
raid on Japan.
Eleven days later HORNET joined ENTERPRISE off Midway and Task Force 16 
turned toward Japan. With ENTERPRISE providing air combat cover, HORNET 
was to steam deep into enemy waters where Colonel Doolittle would lead 
the B-25s in a daring strike on Tokyo and other  important Japanese cities. 
Originally, the task force  intended to proceed to within 400 miles of the 
Japanese coast; however, on the morning of 18 April a Japanese patrol boat, 
NO. 23 NITTO MARU, sighted HORNET. The cruiser NASHVILLE sank the craft 
which already had  informed the Japanese of the presence and location of 
the American task force. Though some 600 miles from the Japanese coast, 
confirmation of the patrol boat's warning prompted Admiral William F. 
Halsey at 0800 to order the immediate launching of the "Tokyo Raiders."
As HORNET swung about and prepared to launch the bombers which had been 
readied for take-off the previous day, a gale of more than 40 knots churned 
the sea with 30-foot crests; heavy swells, which caused the ship to pitch 
violently, shipped sea and spray over the bow, wet the flight deck and 
drenched the deck crews. The lead plane, commanded by Colonel Doolittle, 
had but 467 feet of flight deck while the last B-25 hung far out over the 
fantail. The first of the heavily-laden bombers lumbered down the flight 
deck, circled HORNET after take-off, and set course for Japan. By 0920 all 
16 of the bombers were airborne, heading for the first American air strike 
against the heart of Japan.
at full speed for Pearl Harbor. Intercepted broadcasts, both in 
Japanese and English, confirmed at 1446 the  success of the raids. Exactly 
one week to the hour after launching the B-25s, HORNET sailed into Pearl 
Harbor. HORNET's mission was kept an official secret for a year; until then 
President Roosevelt referred to the origin of the Tokyo raid only as 
"Shangri-La."
HORNET steamed from Pearl 30 April, to aid YORKTOWN and LEXINGTON at the 
Battle of the Coral Sea. But that battle was over before she reached the 
scene. She  returned to Hawaii 26 May and sailed 2 days later with her 
sister carriers to repulse an expected Japanese fleet  assault on Midway.
Japanese carrier-based planes were reported headed  for Midway the early 
morning of 4 June 1942. HORNET,  YORKTOWN, and ENTERPRISE launched 
strikes as the Japanese carriers struck their planes below to prepare for a 
second strike on Midway. HORNET dive bombers missed contact, but 15 
planes comprising her Torpedo Squadron 8 found the enemy and pressed home 
their attacks. They were met by overwhelming fighter opposition about 8 
miles from three enemy carriers and followed all the way in to be shot down 
one by one. Ens. George H. Gay, USNR, the only surviving pilot, reached the 
surface as his plane sunk. He hid under a rubber seat cushion to avoid  
strafing and witness the greatest carrier battle in history.
Of 41 torpedo planes launched by the American carriers, only six returned. 
Their sacrifices drew enemy fighters away from dive bombers of 
ENTERPRISE and YORKTOWN who sank three Japanese carriers with an assist 
from  submarine NAUTILUS. The fourth Japanese carrier, HIRYU, was sunk the 
following day; gallant YORKTOWN was lost to combined aerial and submarine 
attack.
HORNET planes attacked the fleeing Japanese fleet 6 June 1942 to assist in 
sinking cruiser MIKUMA, damaged a  destroyer, and left cruiser MOGAMI 
aflame and heavily  damaged. Hits were also made on other ships. HORNET's 
attack on MOGAMI wrote the finis to one of the decisive battles of history 
that had far reaching and enduring results on the Pacific War. Midway was 
saved as an important base for operations into the western Pacific. 
Likewise saved was Hawaii. Of greatest importance was the crippling of 
Japan's carrier strength, a severe blow from which she never fully 
recovered. The four large aircraft carriers sent to the bottom of the sea 
carried with them some 250 planes along with a high percentage of Japan's 
most highly trained and battleexperienced  carrier pilots. This great victory 
by HORNET and our other ships at Midway spelled the doom of Japan.
Following the Battle of Midway, HORNET had new radar installed and trained 
out of Pearl Harbor. She sailed 17 August 1942 to guard the sea approach to 
bitterly contested Guadalcanal in the Solomons. Bomb damage to ENTERPRISE 
(24 August), torpedo damage to SARATOGA (31 August), and loss of WASP 
(15 September ) reduced carriers in the South Pacific to one HORNET. She 
bore the brunt of air cover in the Solomons until 24 October 1942 when she 
joined ENTERPRISE northwest of the New Hebrides Islands and steamed to 
intercept a Japanese carrier-battleship force bearing down on Guadalcanal.
The Battle of Santa Cruz Island took place 26 October 1942 without contact 
between surface ships of the  opposing forces. That morning ENTERPRISE 
planes bombed  carrier ZUIHO. Planes from HORNET severely damaged  
carrier SHOKAKU, and cruiser CHIKUMA. Two other cruisers were also 
attacked by HORNET aircraft. Meanwhile,  HORNET, herself, was fighting off 
a coordinated dive bombing and torpedo plane attack which left her so 
severely  damaged that she had to be abandoned. Commented one 
sailor, awaiting rescue, when asked if he planned to  re-enlist, "Dammit, 
yes-on the new HORNET!" Captain Mason, the last man on board, climbed over 
the side and survivors were soon picked up by destroyers.
The abandoned HORNET, ablaze from stem to stern,  refused to accept her 
intended fate from friends. She still floated after receiving nine torpedoes 
and more than 400 rounds of 5-inch shellfire from destroyers MUSTIN and 
ANDERSON. Japanese destroyers hastened the inevitable by firing four 24-
inch torpedoes at her blazing hull.  At 0135, 27 October 1942, she finally 
sank off the Santa Cruz Islands.  Her proud name was struck from the Navy 
List 13 January 1943.
HORNET (CV-8) received four battle stars for World War II service.  Her 
famed Torpedo Squadron 8 was awarded the Presidential Unit Citation "for 
extraordinary heroism and distinguished service beyond the call of duty" in 
the Battle of Midway.
Transcribed and edited by:
Larry W. Jewell
jewell@mace.cc.purdue.edu
