ENTERPRISE (CV-6)
From: DICTIONARY OF AMERICAN NAVAL FIGHTING SHIPS, James L. 
Mooney, ed., Naval Historical Center, Department of the Navy, 
Washington, DC., 1963
displacement. 19,800
length. 809'6"
beam. 83'1"
extreme width. 114'
draft. 28'
speed. 33 k.
complement. 2919
armament. 8 5", 38 cal
class. YORKTOWN
The seventh ENTERPRISE (CV-6) was launched 8  October 1986 by Newport 
News Shipbuilding and Drydock Co., Newport News, Va.; sponsored by Mrs. 
Claude A. Swanson, wife of the Secretary of the Navy; and  commissioned 12 
May 1988, Captain N. H. White in command.
ENTERPRISE sailed south on a shakedown cruise which took her to Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil. After her return she operated along the east coast and in the 
Caribbean until April of 1939 when she was ordered to duty in the Pacific. 
Based first on San Diego and then on Pearl Harbor, the carrier trained 
herself and her aircraft squadrons for any eventuality, and carried aircraft 
among the island bases of the Pacific. ENTERPRISE had just completed one 
such mission, delivering Marine Corps Fighter Squadron 211 to Wake Island 
on 2  December 1941, and was en route to Hawaii when the Japanese 
attacked Pearl Harbor.
ENTERPRISE's scout planes arrived over Pearl Harbor during the attack and, 
though surprised, immediately went into action in defense of the naval base. 
The  carrier, meanwhile, launched her remaining aircraft in a fruitless 
search for the Japanese striking force.  ENTERPRISE put into Pearl Harbor 
for fuel and supplies on December and sailed early the next morning to 
patrol against possible additional attacks on the Hawaiian Islands. While the 
group did not encounter any surface ships, ENTERPRISE's aircraft scored a 
kill by sinking  submarine I-170 in 23 d. 45' N., 155 d. 35' W., on 10 
December 1941.
During the last 2 weeks of December 1941, ENTERPRISE and her group 
steamed to the westward of Hawaii to cover those islands while two other 
carrier groups made a belated attempt to relieve Wake Island. After a brief 
rest at Pearl Harbor, the ENTERPRISE group sailed on 11 January to protect 
convoys reinforcing Samoa. On 1 February the task force dealt a hard blow to 
Kwajalein, Wotje, and Maloelap in the Marshall Islands, sinking three ships, 
damaging eight, and destroying numerous airplanes and ground facilities. 
ENTERPRISE received only minor damage in the Japanese counterattack, as 
her force retired to Pearl Harbor.
During the next month ENTERPRISE's force swept the central Pacific, 
blasting enemy installations on Wake and Marcus Islands, then received 
minor alterations and repairs at Pearl Harbor. On 8 April 1942 she  departed 
to rendezvous with HORNET (CV-8) and sail  westward to launch 16 Army B-
25 bombers in a raid on Tokyo. While ENTERPRISE's fighters flew combat air 
patrol, the B-25s roared into the air on 18 April and raced undetected the 
600 miles to their target. The task force, its presence known to the enemy, 
reversed course and returned to Pearl Harbor on 25 April.
Five days later, the "Big E" was speeding toward the South Pacific to 
reinforce the U.S. carriers operating; in the Coral Sea. Distance proved too 
great to conquer in time, and the Battle of the Coral Sea was history before 
ENTERPRISE could reach her destination. Ordered back to Hawaii, the carrier 
entered Pearl Harbor on 26 May and began intensive preparations to meet the 
expected  Japanese thrust at Midway Island. Two days later she sortied as 
flagship of Rear Admiral Raymond A.  Spruance, CTF 16, with orders "to hold 
Midway and inflict maximum damage on the enemy by strong attrition  
tactics." With ENTERPRISE in TF 16 were HORNET, 6 cruisers, and 10 
destroyers. On 30 May, TF 17, Rear Admiral Frank J. Fletcher in YORKTOWN 
(CV-5), with two cruisers, and six destroyers, sailed to support TF 16; as 
senior officer, Rear Admiral Fletcher became "Officer in Tactical Command."
Battle was joined an the morning of 4 June 1942 when four Japanese 
carriers, unaware of the presence of U.S. forces, launched attacks on Midway 
Island. Just 9 hours after the first bomb fell on Midway, planes from HORNET 
struck the enemy force, and 90 minutes later ENTERPRISE and YORKTOWN 
aircraft streaked in to join in smashing the Japanese carriers. Each side 
hurled attacks at the other during the day in one of history's most decisive 
battles. Though the forces were in contact to 7 June, by the end of the 4th 
the outcome had been decided and the tide of the war in the Pacific had been 
turned in the United States' favor. YORKTOWN and HAMMANN  (DD-412) were 
the only United States ships sunk, but TFs 16 and 17 lost a total of 119 
planes, 61 of them in combat, during the battle. Japanese losses, far 
more severe, consisted of 4 carriers, 1 cruiser, and 272 carrier  aircraft. 
ENTERPRISE and all other ships of TFs 16 and 17 came through undamaged, 
returning to Pearl Harbor on 13 June 1942.
After a month of rest and overhaul, ENTERPRISE sailed on 15 July for the 
South Pacific where she joined TF 61 to support the amphibious landings in 
the Solomon Islands on 8 August. For the next 2 weeks, the carrier and her 
planes guarded seaborne communication lines southwest of the Solomons. On 
24 August a strong Japanese force was sighted some 200 miles north of 
Guadalcanal and TF 61 sent planes to the attack. An enemy light carrier was 
sent to the bottom and the Japanese troops intended for Guadalcanal were 
forced back. ENTERPRISE suffered most heavily of the United States ships, 3 
direct hits and 4 near misses killed 74, wounded 95, and inflicted serious 
damage on the carrier. But well-trained damage control parties, and quick, 
hard work patched her up so that she was able to return to Hawaii under her 
own power.
Repaired at Pearl Harbor from 10 September to 16 October, ENTERPRISE 
departed once more for the South Pacific where with HORNET, she formed TF 
61. On 26 October, ENTERPRISE scout planes located a Japanese carrier force 
and the Battle of the Santa Cruz Island was underway. ENTERPRISE aircraft 
struck carriers, battleships, and cruisers during the struggle, while the "Big 
E" herself underwent intensive attack. Hit twice by bombs, ENTERPRISE lost 
44 killed and had 75 wounded. Despite serious damage, she continued in 
action and took on board a large number of planes from HORNET when that 
carrier had to be abandoned. Though the American losses of a carrier and a 
destroyer were more severe than the Japanese loss of one light cruiser, the 
battle gained priceless time to reinforce Guadalcanal against the next enemy 
onslaught.
ENTERPRISE entered Noumea, New Caledonia, on 30 October for repairs, but a 
new Japanese thrust at the Solomons demanded her presence and she sailed 
on 11 November, repair crews from VESTAL 
(AR-4) still on board, working vigorously. Two days later, "Big E" planes 
swarmed down on an enemy force and disabled a battleship which was sunk 
later by other American  aircraft, and on 14 November, aviators from 
ENTERPRISE helped to despatch a heavy cruiser. When the Naval Battle of 
Guadalcanal ended on 15 November 1942, ENTERPRISE had shared in sinking 
16 ships and damaging 8 more. The carrier returned to Noumea on 16  
November to complete her repairs.
Sailing again on 4 December, ENTERPRISE trained out of Espiritu Santo, New 
Hebrides, until 28 January 1943 when she departed for the Solomons area. 
On 30  January her fighters flew combat air patrol for a  cruiser-destroyer 
group during the Battle of Rennell Island. Despite the destruction of a large 
majority of the  attacking Japanese bombers by ENTERPRISE planes, 
CHICAGO (CA-29) was sunk by aerial torpedoes. Detached after the battle, 
the carrier arrived at Espiritu Santo on 1 February, and for the next 3 
months operated out of that base, covering U.S. surface forces up to the  
Solomons. ENTERPRISE then steamed to Pearl Harbor where, on 27 May 1943, 
Admiral Chester W. Nimitz presented the ship with the first Presidential 
Unit Citation won by an aircraft carrier. On 20 July 1943 she entered Puget 
Sound Navy Yard, Bremerton, Wash., for a much-needed overhaul.
Back in action waters by mid-November, ENTERPRISE joined in providing 
close air support to the Marines landing on Makin Island, from 19 to 21 
November. On the night of 26 November 1943, the "Big E" introduced carrier-
based night fighter operations in the Pacific when a three-plane team from 
the ship broke up a large group of land-based bombers attacking TG 50.2. 
After a heavy strike by aircraft of TF 50 against Kwajalein on 4 December, 
ENTERPRISE returned to Pearl Harbor 6 days later.
The carrier's next operation was with TF 58 in softening up the Marshall 
Islands and supporting the landings on Kwajalein, from 29 January to 3 
February. Then ENTERPRISE sailed, still with TF 58, to strike the Japanese 
naval base at Truk in the Caroline Islands, on 17 February. Again the "Big E" 
made aviation history when she launched the first night radar bombing 
attack from any U.S. carrier. The 12 torpedo bombers in this strike achieved 
excellent results, accounting for nearly one-third of the 200,000 tons of 
shipping destroyed by the aircraft of the task force.
Detached from TF 68, ENTERPRISE launched raids on Jaluit Atoll on 20 
February, then steamed to Majuro and Espiritu Santo. Sailing 16 March in TG 
36.1, she  provided air cover and close support for the landings on Emirau 
Island (19-25 March). The carrier rejoined TF 58 on 26 March and for the 
next 12 days joined in the series of hard-hitting strikes against the Yap, 
Ulithi, Woleai, and the Palau Islands. After a week's rest and replenishment 
at Majuro, ENTERPRISE sailed (14 April) to support landings in the Hollandia 
area of New Guinea, and then hit Truk again (29-30 April).
On 6 June 1944, the "Big E" and her companions of TG 58.3 sortied from 
Majuro to strike with the rest of TF 58, the Mariana Islands. Blasting 
Saipan, Rota, and Guam between 11 and 14 June, ENTERPRISE pilots gave 
direct support to the landings on Saipan on 16 June, and covered the troops 
ashore for the next 2 days. Aware of a major Japanese attempt to break up 
the invasion of Saipan, Admiral Raymond A. Spruance, Commander 5th Fleet, 
positioned TF 58 to meet the thrust. On 19 June 1944 took place the 
greatest carrier aircraft battle in history. For over 8 hours airmen of the 
United States and Imperial Japanese navies fought in the skies over TF 58 
and the Marianas. By the end of 
the day, a United States victory was apparent, and at the  conclusion of the 
strikes against the Japanese fleet on 20 June, the triumph became complete. 
Six American ships had been damaged, and 130 planes and a total of 76 
pilots and aircrewmen had been lost. But with a major assist from U.S. 
submarines, 3 Japanese carriers were sunk, and 426 ship-based aircraft 
were destroyed.  Japanese naval aviation never recovered from this blow.
The Battle of the Philippine Sea over, ENTERPRISE and her companions 
continued to support the Saipan campaign through 6 July. ENTERPRISE then 
sailed for Pearl Harbor and a month of rest and overhaul. Back in action 
waters on 24 August, the carrier sailed with TF 38 in that force's aerial 
assault on the Volcano and Bonin Islands from 31 August to 2 September, 
and Yap, Ulithi, and the Palaus from 6 to 8 September. After operating west 
of the Palau Islands, the "Big E" joined other units of TF 38 on 7 October, and 
shaped course to the northward. From 10 to 20 October her aviators roared 
over Okinawa, Formosa, and the Philippines, blasting enemy airfields, shore 
installations, and  shipping in preparation for the assault on Leyte. After 
supporting the Leyte landings on 20 October, ENTERPRISE headed for Ulithi 
to replenish but the approach of the Japanese fleet 23 October, brought her 
racing back into action. In the Battle for Leyte Gulf (23-26  October), 
ENTERPRISE planes struck all three groups of enemy forces, battering 
battleships and destroyers  before the action ended. The carrier remained on 
patrol east of Samar and Leyte until the end of October, then retired to 
Ulithi for supplies. During November, her aircraft struck targets in the 
Manila area, and the island of Yap. The "Big E" returned to Pearl Harbor on 6 
December 1944.
Sailing 24 December for the Philippine area,  ENTERPRISE carried on board 
an air group specially trained In night carrier operations. She joined TG 38.5 
and swept the waters north of Luzon and of the China Sea during January of 
1945, striking shore targets and shipping from Formosa to Indo-China. After 
a brief visit to Ulithi, the "Big E" joined TG 58.5 on 10 February 1945, and 
provided day and night combat air patrol for TF 58 as it struck Tokyo on 16 
and 17 February. She then supported the marines on Iwo Jima from the day 
of the landings, 19 February, until 9 March when she sailed for Ulithi. During 
one part of that period, ENTERPRISE kept aircraft aloft continuously over 
Iwo Jima for 174 hours. Departing Ulithi 15 March, the carrier continued her 
night work in raids against Kyushu, Honshu, and shipping in the Inland Sea of 
Japan. Damaged slightly by an enemy bomb on 18 March, ENTERPRISE entered 
Ulithi 6 days later for repairs. Back in action on 5 April, she supported the 
Okinawa operation until again damaged (11 April), this time by a suicide 
plane, and forced back to Ulithi. Off Okinawa once more on 6 May, 
ENTERPRISE flew patrols around the clock as the menace of the kamikaze 
increased. On 14 May 1945, the "Big E" suffered her last wound of World War 
II when a suicide plane destroyed her forward elevator, killing 14 and 
wounding 34 men. The carrier sailed for repairs at the Puget Sound Navy 
Yard, arriving 7 June 1945.
Restored to peak condition, ENTERPRISE voyaged to Pearl Harbor, returning 
to the States with some 1,100 servicemen due for discharge, then sailed on 
to New York, arriving 17 October 1945. Two weeks later she proceeded to 
Boston for installation of additional  berthing facilities, then began a series 
of "Magic Carpet" voyages to Europe, bringing more than 10,000 veterans 
home in her final service to her country. ENTERPRISE entered the New York 
Naval Shipyard on 18 January 1946 for inactivation, and 
was decommissioned on 17 February 1947. The "Big E" was sold on 1 July 
1958.
In addition to her Presidential Unit Citation,  ENTERPRISE received the 
Navy Unit Commendation and 20 battle stars for World War II service:
Transcribed and edited by:
Larry W. Jewell
jewell@mace.cc.purdue.edu
