From: Dictionary of American Fighting Ships, Vol. III, 1968, Navy 
Department, Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, Naval History 
Division, Washington, D.C.
HANCOCK (CV-19)
dp. 27,100;
l. 888':
b. 93', ew. 147' 6";
dr. 28' 7";
s. 33 k.;
cpl. 3,448;
a. 12 5", 44 40-mm., 59 20-mm., ac. 80 plus;
cl.  ESSEX
The fourth HANCOCK (CV-19) was laid down as TICONDEROGA 26 January 
1943 by the Bethlehem Steel Co., Quincy, Mass., renamed HANCOCK 1 May 
1943, launched 24 January 1944; sponsored by Mrs. DeWitt C. Ramsey, wife 
of Rear Admiral Ramsey, Chief of the Bureau of Aeronautics, and 
commissioned 15 April 1944, Captain Fred C. Dickey in command.
After fitting out in the Boston Navy Yard and shakedown training off 
Trinidad and Venezuela, HANCOCK returned to Boston for alterations 9 July. 
She departed Boston 31 July en route to Pearl Harbor via the Panama Canal 
and San Diego, and from there sailed 24 September to join Admiral W. F. 
Halsey's 3d Fleet at Ulithi 5 October. She was assigned to Rear Admiral 
Bogan's Carrier Task Group 38.2.
HANCOCK got underway the following afternoon for a rendezvous point 375 
miles west of the Marianas where units of Vice Admiral Mitscher's Fast 
Carrier Task Force 38 were assembling in preparation for the daring cruise 
to raid Japanese air and sea bases in the Ryukyus, Formosa and the 
Philippines. Thus enemy air power was paralyzed during General MacArthur's 
invasion of Leyte. When the armada arrived off the Ryukyu Islands 10 
October 1944, HANCOCK's planes rose off her deck to wreak destruction upon 
Okinawan airfields and shipping. Her planes destroyed 7 enemy aircraft on 
the ground and assisted in the destruction of a submarine tender, 12 torpedo 
boats, 2 midget submarines, 4 cargo ships, and a number of sampans. Next on 
the agenda were Formosan air bases where 12 October HANCOCK's pilots 
downed six enemy planes and destroyed nine more on the ground. She also 
reported one cargo ship definitely sunk, three probably destroyed, and 
several others damaged.
As they repelled an enemy air raid that evening, HANCOCK's gunners 
accounted for a Japanese plane and drove countless others off during 7 hours 
of uninterrupted general quarters. The following morning her planes resumed 
their assault, knocking out ammunition dumps, hangars, barracks, and 
industrial plants ashore and damaging an enemy transport. As Japanese 
planes again attacked Americans during their second night off Formosa, 
HANCOCK's antiaircraft fire brought down another raider which splashed 
about 500 yards off her flight deck. On the morning of the third day of 
operations against this enemy stronghold HANCOCK lashed out again at 
airfields and shipping before retiring to the southeast with her task force. 
As the American ships withdrew a heavy force of Japanese aircraft roared 
in for a parting crack. One dropped a bomb off HANCOCK's port bow a few 
seconds before the carrier's guns splashed her into the sea. Another bomb 
penetrated a gun platform but exploded harmlessly in the water. The 
surviving attackers then turned tail, and the task force was thereafter 
unmolested as they sailed toward the Philippines to support the landings 
Leyte.
On 18 October she launched planes against airfields and shipping at Laoag 
Aparri, and Camiguin Island in Northern Luzon. Her planes struck the islands 
of Cebu, Panay, Negros, and Masbate, pounding enemy airfields and shipping. 
The next day she retired toward Ulithi with Vice Admiral John S. McCain's 
Carrier Task Group 38.1.
She received orders 23 October to turn back to the area off Samar to assist 
in the search for units of the Japanese fleet reportedly closing Leyte to 
challenge the American fleet and to destroy amphibious forces which were 
struggling to take the island from Japan. HANCOCK did not reach Samar in 
time to assist the heroic escort carriers and destroyers of "Taffy 3" during 
the main action the Battle off Samar but her planes did manage to lash the 
fleeing Japanese Center Force as it passed 
through San Bernardino Straits. HANCOCK then rejoined Rear Admiral Bogan's 
Task Group with which she struck airfields and shipping in the vicinity of 
Manila 29 October 1944. During operations through 19 November, her planes 
gave direct support to advancing Army troops and attacked Japanese 
shipping over a 350-mile area. She became flagship of Fast Carrier Task 
Force 38, 17 November 1944 when Vice Admiral McCain came on board.
Unfavorable weather prevented operations until 25 November when an enemy 
aircraft roared toward HANCOCK in a suicide dive out of the sun. 
Antiaircraft fire exploded the plane some 300 feet above the ship but a 
section of its fuselage landed amidships and a part of the wing hit the flight 
deck and burst into flames. Prompt and skillful teamwork quickly 
extinguished the blaze and prevented serious damage.
HANCOCK returned to Ulithi 27 November and departed from that island with 
her task group to maintain air control over enemy airfields on Luzon to 
prevent enemy suicide attacks on amphibious vessels of the landing force in 
Mindoro. The first strikes were launched 14 December against Clark and 
Angeles Airfields as well as enemy ground targets on Salvador Island. The 
next day her planes struck installations at Masinloc. San Fernando, and
Page 233
Cabatuan, while fighter patrols kept the Japanese airmen
down. Her planes also attacked shipping in Manila 
Bay. HANCOCK encountered a severe typhoon 17 
December and rode out the storm in waves which 
broke over her flight deck, some 55 feet above her 
waterline. She put into Ulithi 24 December and got 
underway 6 days later to attack airfields and 
shipping around the South China Sea. Her planes 
struck hard blows at Luzon airfields 
7 and 8 January and turned their attention back to Formosa 9 January 
hitting fiercely at airfields and the Tokyo
Seaplane Station. An enemy convoy north of Camranh
Bay, Indochina, was the next victim with 2 ships sunk and
11 damaged. That afternoon HANCOCK launched strikes
against airfield at Saigon and shipping on the northeastern bulge of 
French Indochina. Strikes by the fast and
mobile carrier force continued through 16 January, hitting
Hainan Island in the Gulf of Tonkin, the Pescadores
Islands, and shipping in the harbor of Hong Kong. 
Raids against Formosa were resumed 20 January 
1945. The 
next afternoon one of her planes returning from a 
sortie made a normal landing, taxied to a point abreast 
of the island, and disintegrated in a blinding explosion 
which killed 50 men and injured 75 others. Again 
outstanding work quickly brought the fires under 
control in time to land other planes which were still 
aloft. She returned to formation and launched strikes 
against Okinawa the next morning.
HANCOCK reached Ulithi 25 January where Vice 
Admiral McCain left the ship and relinquished 
command of the 5th Fleet. She sortied with the ships 
of her task group 
10 February and launched strikes against airfields in 
the vicinity of Tokyo 16 February. During that day her 
air group downed 71 enemy planes, and accounted for 12 
more the next. Her planes hit the enemy naval bases at 
Chichi 
Jima and Haha Jima 19 February. These raids were conducted to isolate 
Iwo Jima from air and sea support when
marines hit the beaches of that island to begin one of the
most bloody and fierce campaigns of the war. HANCOCK 
took station off this island to provide tactical support 
through 22 February, hitting enemy airfields and 
strafing Japanese troops ashore.
Returning to waters off the enemy home islands, HANCOCK launched her 
planes against targets on northern
Honshu, making a diversionary raid on the Nansei-Shoto
islands 1 March before returning to Ulithi 4 
March.
Back in Japanese waters HANCOCK joined other carriers 
in strikes against Kyushu airfields, southwestern 
Honshu, and shipping in the Inland Sea of Japan, 18 
March 1945. HANCOCK was refueling destroyer HALSEY 
POWELL 20 March when suicide planes attacked the task 
force. One plane dove for the two ships but was 
disintegrated by gunfire when about 700 feet overhead. 
Fragments of the plane hit HANCOCK's deck while its 
engine and bomb crashed the fantail of the destroyer. 
HANCOCK's gunners shot 
down another plane as it neared the release point of 
its bombing run on the carrier.
HANCOCK was reassigned to Carrier Task Group 58.3
with which she truck the Nansei-Shoto islands 23 
through Z7 March and Minami Daito Jima and Kyushu at 
the end of the month.
When the 10th Army landed on the western coast of 
Okinawa 1 April HANCOCK was on hand to provide close 
air support. A suicide plane cartwheeled across her 
flight deck 7 April and crashed into a group of planes 
while its 
bomb hit the port catapult to cause a tremendous explosion. Although 2 
men were killed and 71 wounded,
heroic efforts doused the fires within half an hour enabling
her to be back in action before an hour had passed.
HANCOCK was detached from her task group 9 April and 
teamed to Pearl Harbor for repairs. She sailed back into 
action 13 June and left lethal calling cards at Wake Island 
20 June en route to the Philippines. HANCOCK sailed from 
San Pedro Bay with the other carriers 1 July and attacked 
Tokyo airfields 10 July. She continued to operate in 
Japanese waters until she received confirmation of 
Japan's capitulation 15 August 1945 when she recalled her 
planes 
from their deadly missions before they reached their targets. However 
planes of her photo division were attacked
by seven enemy aircraft over Sagami Wan. Three were
shot down and a fourth escaped in a trail of smoke. Later
that afternoon planes of HANCOCK's air patrol shot down 
a Japanese torpedo plane as it dived on a British task 
force. Her planes flew missions over Japan in search of 
prison camps, dropping supplies and medicine, 25 August. 
Information collected during these flights led to landings 
under command of Commodore R. W. Simpson which
brought doctors and supplies to all Allied prisoner of war 
encampments.
When the formal surrender of the Japanese Imperial 
Government was signed on board battleship MISSOURI, 
HANCOCK's planes flew overhead. The carrier entered 
Tokyo Bay 10 September 1945 and sailed 30 September, 
embarking 1,500 passengers at Okinawa for transportation to San Pedro, 
California, where she arrived 21 October. HANCOCK was fitted out for 
"Magic Carpet" duty
at San Pedro and sailed for Seeadler Harbor, Manus,
Admiralty Islands, 2 November. On her return 
voyage she carried 4,000 passengers who were 
debarked at San Diego 4 December. A week later 
HANCOCK departed for 
her second "Magic Carpet" voyage, embarking 3,773 passengers at Manila for 
return to Alameda, Calif., 20 January 1946. She embarked Air Group 7 at San 
Diego 18
February for air operations off the coast of California.
She sailed from San Diego 11 March to embark men of
two air groups and aircraft at Pearl Harbor for transportation to 
Saipan, arriving 1 April 1946. After receiving
two other air groups on board at Saipan, she loaded a
cargo of aircraft at Guam and steamed by way of 
Pearl Harbor to Alameda, Calif., arriving 23 April 
1946. She 
then steamed to Seattle, Wash., 29 April to await inactivation. The 
proud ship decommissioned and entered the
reserve fleet at Bremerton, Wash.
HANCOCK commenced conversion and modernization 
to
an attack aircraft carrier in Puget Sound 15 
December 1951 and was reclassified CVA-19, 1 
October 1952. She recommissioned 15 February 
1954, Captain W. S. Butts in command. She was the 
first carrier of the United States Fleet with steam 
catapults capable of launching high performance 
jets.
She was off San Diego 7 May 1954 for operations 
along the coast of California that included the 
launching 17 
June of the first aircraft to take off a United States carrier 
by means of a steam catapult. After a year of operations along 
the Pacific coast that included testing of Sparrow I and 
Regulus missiles and Cutlass jet aircraft, she sailed
10 August 1955 for 7th Fleet operations ranging from 
the shores of Japan to the Philippines and Okinawa. 
She returned to San Diego 15 March 1956 and 
decommissioned 
13 April for conversion that included the installation of 
an angled flight deck.
HANCOCK recommissioned 15 November 1956 for 
training out of San Diego until 6 April 1957 when she 
again sailed for Hawaii and the Far East. She returned to 
San Diego 
18 September 1957 and again departed for Japan 15 February 1958. She was 
a unit of powerful carrier task
groups taking station off Taiwan when the Nationalist
Chinese islands of Quemoy and Matsu were threatened 
with Communist invasion in August 1958. The carrier 
returned to San Diego 2 October 1958 for overhaul in 
the San Francisco Naval Shipyard, followed by 
rigorous at sea training out of San Diego. On 1 August 
1959, she 
sailed to reinforce the 7th Fleet as troubles in Laos demanded the 
watchful presence of powerful American
forces in water off southeast Asia. She returned to San
Francisco 18 January 1960 and put to sea early in February to 
participate in a new demonstration of communications by reflecting 
ultra-high-frequency waves off the
moon. She again departed in August to steam with the
7th Fleet in waters off Laos until lessening of 
tension in that area permitted operations ranging 
from Japan to the Philippines.
HANCOCK returned to San Francisco in March 1961, 
then entered the Puget Sound Naval Shipyard for an 
overhaul 
that gave her new electronics gear and many other improvements. She again 
set sail for Far Eastern waters
Page 234
2 February 1962, patrolling in the South China Sea as crisis and strife 
mounted both in Laos and in South Vietnam. She again appeared off Quemoy 
and Matsu in June 1962 to stem a threatened Communist invasion there, then 
trained along the coast of Japan and in waters reaching to Okinawa. She 
returned to San Francisco 7 October 1962, made a brief cruise to the coast 
of Hawaii while qualifying pilots then again sailed 7 June 1963 for the Far 
East.
HANCOCK joined in combined defense exercises along the coast of South 
Korea, then deployed off the coast of South Vietnam after the coup which 
resulted in the death of President Diem. She entered the Hunter's Point Naval 
Shipyard 16 January 1964 for modernization that included installation of a 
new ordnance system, hull repairs, and aluminum decking for her flight deck. 
She celebrated her 20th birthday 2 June 1964 while visiting San Diego. The 
carrier made a training cruise to Hawaii, then departed Alameda 21 October 
1964 for another tour of duty with the 7th Fleet in the Far East.
HANCOCK reached Japan 19 November and soon was on patrol at Yankee 
Station in the Gulf of Tonkin. She remained active in Vietnamese waters 
fighting to thwart Communist aggression until heading for home early in the 
spring of 1965.
November found the carrier steaming back to the war zone. She was on 
patrol off Vietnam 16 December; and, but for brief respites at Hong Kong, 
the Philippines, or Japan, HANCOCK remained on station launching her planes 
for strikes at enemy positions ashore until returning to Alameda, Calif., 1 
August, 1966. Her outstanding record during this combat tour won her the 
Navy Unit Commendation.
Following operations off the West Coast, HANCOCK returned to Vietnam 
early in 1967 and resumed her strikes against Communist positions. After 
fighting during most of the first half of 1967, she returned to Alameda 22 
July and promptly began preparations for returning to battle. 
HANCOCK was awarded the Navy Unit Commendation and received four 
battle stars for service in World War II.
