

--------ALASKA CB-1
displacement. 27,000
length. 806'6"
beam. 91'1"
draft. 27'1" (mean)
speed. 31.4 k.
complement. 2,251
armament. 9 12", 12 5", 
	56 40 mm., 34 20 mm.
aircraft. 4
Armor: 9' belt, 12 4/5" turrets, 1 2/5" + 4" + 5/8" decks 
Machinery: 150,000 SHP; G.E. geared turbines, 4 screws. class. 
ALASKA
The third ALASKA (CB-1)-the first of a class of "large cruisers" designed as 
a compromise to achieve a fast cruiser with a relatively  heavy main 
battery-was laid down on 17 December 1941 at Camden, N.J., by the New 
York Shipbuilding Corp.; launched on 15 August 1943; sponsored by Mrs. 
Ernest Gruening, wife of the Honorable Ernest Gruening, Governor of 
ALASKA; and commissioned  at the Philadelphia Navy Yard on 17 June 1944, 
Cap Peter K. Fischler in command.
Following post-commissioning fitting out at the Philadelphia Navy Yard, 
ALASKA stood down the Delaware River on 6 August 1944, bound for 
Hampton Roads, escorted by SIMPSON (DD-221) and BROOME (DD-210). She 
then conducted an intensive shakedown,  first in Chesapeake Bay and then in 
the Gulf of Paria, off Trinidad,  British West Indies, escorted by BAINBRIDGE 
(DD-246) and DECATUR (DD-341). Steaming via Annapolis, Md., and Norfolk,  
ALASKA returned to the Philadelphia Navy Yard, where the large cruiser 
underwent changes and alterations to her fire control  suite: the fitting of 
four Mk. 57 directors for her five-inch battery.
ALASKA departed Philadelphia on 12 November 1944 for the Caribbean, in 
company with THOMAS E. FRASER (DM-24), and, after two weeks of 
standardization trials out of Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, sailed for the Pacific on 
2 December. She completed her transit of the Panama Canal on 4 December, 
and reached San Diego on the 12th. Thereafter, the new large cruiser trained 
in shore bombardment and anti-aircraft firing off San Diego before  an 
availability at Hunter's Point, near San Francisco.
On 8 January 1945, ALASKA sailed for Hawaii, and reached Pearl Harbor on 
the 13th, where, on the 27th, Capt. Kenneth M. Noble relieved Capt. Fischler, 
who had achieved flag rank. Over the ensuing days, ALASKA conducted 
further training before getting underway as a unit of Task Group (TG) 12.2, 
weighing anchor for the western Pacific on 29 January. She reached Ulithi, 
the fleet 
anchorage in the Caroline Islands, on 6 February, and there joined TG 58.5, a 
task group in the famed Task Force (TF) 58, the fast carrier task force.
ALASKA sailed for the Japanese home islands as part of TG 58.5 on 10 
February 1945, assigned the mission of screening the aircraft  carriers 
SARATOGA (CV-3) and ENTERPRISE (CV-6) as they carried out night air 
strikes against Tokyo and its airields. During the voyage, all hands on board 
ALASKA speculated about what lay ahead-almost three-quarters of the men 
had never seen action before and sought out the veterans in their midst "for 
counsel and advice."
Sensing the air of expectation on board his ship, Capt. Noble spoke to the 
crew over the public address system and reassured them of his confidence 
in them. In doing so, he used an analogy familiar to most Americans: "We are 
a member of a large task force which is going to pitch directly over the 
home plate of the enemy," he said, "It is our particular job to back up the 
pitchers."
Backing up the "pitchers" proved comparatively easy. TF 58, cloaked by bad 
weather, approached the Japanese homeland from east of the Marianas. Using 
radio deception and deploying submarines, long-range patrol aircraft from 
Fleet Air Wing 1, and Army Air Force Boeing B-29 "Superfortresses" as 
scouts, ahead of the advancing task force, the Americans neared their 
objective undetected. The first major carrier strike against the heart of the 
Japanese Empire, a year after the successful raids on Truk, covered the 
developing Iwo Jima landings and proved good practice for future operations 
against Okinawa. The low ceiling prevented Japanese retaliation, thus giving 
ALASKA no opportunity to put into practice her rigorous antiaircraft 
training  as she guarded the carriers. Assigned to TG 58.4 soon thereafter, 
ALASKA supported the Iwo Jima operations, and, as before, no enemy 
aircraft came near the carrier formation to which the large cruiser was 
attached. For nineteen days she screened the carriers before retiring to 
Ulithi to take on stores and carry out minor repairs.
With the decision reached to occupy Okinawa, in the Nansei Shoto chain, in 
early April of 1945, invasion planners proceeded on the assumption that the 
Japanese would resist with maximum available naval and air strength. To 
destroy as many planes as possible-and thus diminish the possibility of 
American naval forces coming under air attack from Japanese planes-the 
fast carrier task force was hurled against the enemy's homeland again: to 
strike airfields on Kyushu, Shikoku, and western Honshu.
ALASKA, still with TG 58.4-formed around the fleet carriers YORKTOWN 
(CV-10), INTREPID (CV-11), INDEPENDENCE (CVL-22) and LANGLEY (CVL-27) 
again drew the duty of protecting the valuable flattops. Her principal 
mission then, as it had been before,  was defense of the task group against 
enemy air or surface attacks.
Its battle plan outlined in detail, TF 58 cruised northwesterly from the 
Carolines, following the departure from Ulithi on 14 March. Refueling at sea 
on the 16th, this mighty force reached a point southeast of Kyushu early on 
the 18th. On that day, the planes from TG 58.4 swept over Japanese airfields 
at Usa, Oita, and Saeki, joining those from three other task groups, TG 58.1, 
TG 58.2, and TG 58.3 in claiming 107 enemy aircraft destroyed on the ground 
and a further 77 (of 142) engaged over the target area.

ALASKA tasted action for the first time as the Japanese retaliated  with air 
strikes of their own. Task Force 58's radars provided  "little if any warning" 
of the approach of enemy planes, due to the weather conditions encountered. 
All too often, the first  indication of the enemy's presence was a visual 
sighting. ALASKA spotted a "Frances" at 0810 and commenced fire. She 
registered hits almost immediately but the suicider maintained its course 
toward the stern of the nearby INTREPID. Less than a half-mile from his 
quarry, however, the "Frances" exploded into fragments  with a direct hit 
from ALASKA's guns.
Soon thereafter, ALASKA received word of the proximity of "friendlies" in 
the vicinity. At 0822, a single-engined plane  approached the large cruiser 
"in a threatening fashion" from ahead, in a shallow dive. ALASKA opened fire 
promptly and scored hits. Unfortunately, almost simultaneously her fire 
controlmen were receiving word that the plane was, indeed, a friendly F6F 
"Hellcat." Fortunately, the pilot was uninjured and ditched his crippled 
plane; another ship in the disposition picked him up.
For the balance of the day, the suicide attacks continued. The vigilant 
combat air patrol (CAP), however, downed a dozen planes over the task force 
while ships' gunfire accounted for almost two dozen more. ALASKA added a 
second enemy bomber to her "bag" when she splashed a "Judy" at about 1315.
The next morning, the 19th, photo reconnaissance having disclosed  the 
presence of a large number of major Japanese fleet units in the Inland Sea, 
TF 58 launched planes to go after them. TG 58.4's aircraft took on targets of 
opportunity at Kobe; others at Kure and Hiroshima. Extremely heavy and 
accurate enemy 
antiaircraft fire, however, rendered the attacks only moderately  successful 
for TF 58's aviators.
Shortly after the first strikes had been launched, however, the Japanese 
struck back, hitting TG 58.2, some 20 miles to the northward of the other 
groups in TF 58. At about 0708, FRANKLIN (CV-13) reeled under the impact of 
two bomb hits; WASP (CV-18) too, fell victim to Japanese bombs. On board 
ALASKA, those in a position to watch the developing battle noted a flash, 
followed by a slowly rising column of smoke. "All who saw it knew that a 
carrier had been hit," the cruiser's historian records, "and soon the radio 
brought confirmation that the Franklin had been the victim .... " 
The thin cloud layer having rendered radar largely useless, Japanese planes 
attacked all task groups. During the afternoon, TF 58 retired slowly to the 
southwestward, covering the crippled FRANKLIN and simultaneously launching 
fighter sweeps against airfields on Kyushu in order to disorganize any 
attempted strikes against it. To further protect FRANKLIN, a salvage unit, 
Task Unit (TU) 58.2.9, was formed.
Composed of ALASKA, her sister ship GUAM (CB-2), the heavy cruiser 
PITTSBURGH (CA-72), the light cruiser SANTA FE (CL-60), and three destroyer 
divisions, TU 58.2.9 drew the duty of screening the damaged "Big Ben," as 
FRANKLIN had been affectionately nicknamed by her crew. Ordered to make its 
best speed toward Guam, TU 58.2.9 set out in that direction, covered by TU 
58.2.0, four aircraft carriers and the remaining heavy units originally 
assigned to TG 58.2 at the outset.
The initial part of the voyage proved uneventful, and not until the afternoon 
did Japanese aircraft appear. Several bogies 
(unidentified aircraft) showed up on the radar screens; investigation  
revealed most to be Navy PB4Y patrol bombers failing to show IFF 
(identification, friend or foe). Two of three CAP divisions  sent out to 
challenge a bogey identified it as a PB4Y; unfortunately, because the 
friendly character of one bogey was established, the interception of a 
second bogey at about the same time failed to materialize. Only poor 
marksmanship on the part of the "Judy" pilot saved FrankLin from another 
bomb hit. ALASKA added to the hail of gunfire put up on the "Judy" but it 
sped away, unscathed. The final salvo from ALASKA's mount 51 caused flash 
burns on men manning a 40millimeter mount nearby-the only casualties 
suffered by the large cruiser. Later that day, ALASKA received on board 15 
men from FrankLin for medical treatment.
The following morning, ALASKA assumed fighter director duty, and 
controlled three divisions of fighters from HANCOCK (CV-19). While these 
divisions remained on station pending the arrival of their relief, ALASKA's 
SK radar picked up a bogey, 35 miles away, at 1143. The large cruiser 
vectored the CAP fighters to the scene, and at 1148, heard the "tallyho" 
indicating that the CAP had spotted the bogey. At 1149, the fighters 
splashed a "Nick" 19 miles away.
On 22 March, ALASKA's part in the escort of the damaged FRANKLIN was 
complete, and she rejoined TG 58.4, fueling that same day from CHICOPEE 
(A0-34). At 2342, one of the destroyers in the screen, HAGGARD (DD-555), 
reported a "skunk" (submarine contact) 25,000 yards distant. She and 
UHLMANN (DD-687) were detached to investigate, and early the next 
morning, HAGGARD rammed and sank a Japanese submarine (perhaps I-370, 
which had departed the Bungo Channel on 21 February 1945 for Iwo Jima as 
part of a special kaiten-carrying attack unit), suffering enough damage 
herself in the encounter to be ordered back to base in company with 
UHLMANN.
Over the next few days, the air strikes against Okinawa continued, setting 
the stage for the landing set to commence on 
Easter Sunday, 1 April 1945. ALASKA continued to provide support  for the 
carriers launching the strikes until detached on 27 March to carry out a shore 
bombardment against Minami Daito Shimo, a tiny island 160 miles east of 
Okinawa. The task unit, TU 58.4.9, consisted of ALASKA, GUAM, SAN DIEGO 
(CL-53), FLINT (CL-97), and Destroyer Squadron 47.
Ordered to carry out the shoot en route to a fueling area, ALASKA and GUAM 
and their screen steamed west of the island on north/south courses between 
2245 on 27 March and 0030 on the 28th. ALASKA's main battery hurled 45 
high-capacity rounds shoreward, while her five-inch battery added 352 
rounds of  antiaircraft common. No answering fire came from the beach, and 
ALASKA's observers noted "satisfactory fires" on the island.
Rejoining TG 58.4 at the fueling rendezvous, ALASKA transferred  the 
FRANKLIN wounded to TOMAHAWK (AO-88) while she took on fuel from the 
fleet oiler. She then resumed her screening of the fast carriers as they 
carried out operations in support of the buildup and landing on Okinawa, on 
the alert to repel aircraft attacks. The landings went off as scheduled on 1 
April, and her operations over ensuing days supported the troops. On 7 April, 
Japanese surface units moving through the East China Sea toward Okinawa to 
disrupt the landings ran afoul of a massive air strike from Vice Admiral Marc 
Mitscher's fast carrier task force which sank the giant battleship YAMATO, 
one cruiser and four destroyers.
Operating off Okinawa and Kyushu, ALASKA lent the  protection of her guns 
to the fast carriers in the task group which sent daily sweeps of "Hellcats" 
and "Corsairs" over enemy airfields, shore installations and shipping. On the 
evening of 11 April, ALASKA chalked up an assist in shooting down a 
Japanese plane, shot down one, unassisted, and claimed what might have 
been a piloted rocket bomb "baka" on the night of 11-12 April.
Four days later, on the 16th, ALASKA's gunfire splashed what were probably 
a "Judy" and two "Zekes," and the ship claimed assists in downing three 
additional enemy aircraft. That same day, however, an enemy aircraft 
managed to get through ALASKA's barrage to crash INTREPID. That night, 
though, the cruiser's gunfire proved instrumental in driving off a single 
snooper attempting to close the formation. On the night of 21-22 April, the 
cruiser again used her heavy antiaircraft battery to drive off single planes 
attempting to attack the task group. On the night of 29-30 April, toward the 
end of the ship's time at sea with the fast carriers for that stretch, ALASKA 
twice drove off attacking groups of Japanese planes.
ALASKA anchored back at Ulithi on 14 May, bringing to a close a cruise of 
almost two months duration. Ten days later, after rest and refreshment, the 
ship sailed-now part of the 3d Fleet and with TG 38.4. Newcomers to the 
formation included the battleship IOWA (BB-61) and the carrier 
TICONDEROGA (CV-14). Over the next two weeks, ALASKA again screened a 
portion of the fast carrier task force, and conducted her second shore  
bombardment when, on 9 June, she and her sister ship GUAM shelled the 
Japanese-held Okino Daito Shima, just south of Minami Daito Shimo which 
had been visited by the two cruisers in late March, and known to have enemy 
radar sites located there.
Subsequently, the task group sailed southwesterly for San Pedro Bay, Leyte, 
reaching its destination on the afternoon of 13 June 1945. A month in Leyte 
Gulf then ensued-a period of "rest, refreshment, and maintenance"-before 
ALASKA sailed again on 13 July, this time as part of the newly formed TF 
95. Reaching Buckner Bay, Okinawa, on the 16th, TF 95 fueled there and then 
sailed the following day, bound for the coast of China and a foray into the 
East China Sea, long a hunting ground for American planes and submarines 
but not entered by an American  surface force since before Pearl Harbor.
Although planners for the sweep had anticipated resistance, none 
materialized; ALASKA, GUAM, and their consorts ranged the area at will, 
encountering only Chinese fishing junks. Enemy aircraft venturing out to 
attack the task force several times fell to CAP fighters. Operating out of 
Buckner Bay, ALASKA  participated in three sweeps into these waters, and 
all could see how effective the blockade of Japan had become; no Japanese 
ships were sighted during the course of the operation. Commented GUAM's 
commanding officer, Capt. Leland P. Lovette: "We went prepared to tangle 
with a hornet's nest and wound up in a field of pansies-but we've proved a 
point and the East China Sea is ours to do with as we please."
Buckner Bay proved to offer more excitement than the sweeps. Even the 
war's waning days possessed elements of danger; on 12 August a Japanese 
torpedo plane scored a hit on the battleship PENNSYLVANIA (BB-38), near 
ALASKA's anchorage. Over the days that ensued, nightly sorties to avoid 
last-ditch suiciders took place. When the war did finally end in mid-August, 
the ship went wild with joy, as ALASKA's chronicler wrote: "We knew that 
we would be going home far sooner than any of us had ever expected when 
we first set out the preceding January for the combat 
area."
There was, however, still work to be done. On 30 August, ALASKA sailed 
from Okinawa as part of the 7th Fleet's occupation forces, and after taking 
part in a "show of force" in the Yellow Sea and Gulf of Chihli, reached Jinsen 
(later Inchon), Korea, on 8 September 1945. ALASKA supported the landing of 
Army occupation  troops at Jinsen, and remained at that port until 26 
September, on which date she sailed for Tsingtao, China, making  port the 
following day. She shifted to an anchorage outside the harbor entrance on 11 
October to support the 6th Marine Division landings to occupy the key North 
China seaport, and ultimately remained at Tsingtao until 13 November, when 
she got underway to return to Jinsen, there to embark returning Army 
soldiers homeward-bound as part of Operation "Magic Carpet." Sailing for 
the United States on 14 November, ALASKA  stopped briefly at Pearl Harbor 
before proceeding on to San Francisco.
Steaming thence to the Panama Canal, and completing her transit of the 
isthmian waterway on 13 December 1945, ALASKA proceeded to the Boston 
Naval Shipyard, arriving on 18 December.  There she underwent an 
availability preparing her for inactivation. Departing Boston on 1 Feburary 
1946 for her assigned  permanent berthing area at Bayonne, N.J., ALASKA 
arrived there the following day. Placed in inactive status commission, in 
reserve" at Bayonne, on 13 August 1946, ALASKA was ultimately placed out 
of commission, in reserve, on 17 February  1947.
The large cruiser never returned to active duty. Her name struck from the 
Naval Vessel Register on 1 June 1960, the was sold on 30 June 1960 to the 
Lipsett Division of Luria Brothers  of New York City, to be broken up for 
scrap.
ALASKA (CB-1) was awarded three battle stars for her World War II service.

