

From: Dictionary of American Fighting Ships, Vol. III, 1968, Navy 
Department, Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, Naval History 
Division, Washington, D.C.
INTREPID CV-11
dp. 27,100;
l. 872';
b. 147' 6";
dr. 28' 7";
s. 33 k.;
cpl. 3,448;
a. 12 5", 68 40-mm., over 80 ac.;
cl. ESSEX
The fourth INTREPID was launched 26 April 1943, by Newport News 
Shipbuilding & Dry Dock Co., Newport News, Va.; sponsored by Mrs. John 
Howard Hoover; and commissioned 16 August, Captain Thomas L. Sprague in 
command.
After training in the Caribbean INTREPID departed Norfolk 3 December 1943 
for San Francisco, then to Hawaii. She arrived Pearl Harbor 10 January and 
prepared for the invasion of the Marshall Islands, the next objective in the 
Navy's mighty island-hopping campaign. She sortied from Pearl Harbor with 
carriers CABOT and ESSEX 16 January to raid islands at the northeastern 
corner of Kwajalein Atoll 29 January 1944 and pressed the attack until the 
last opposition had vanished 2 February. The raids destroyed all of the 83 
Japanese planes based on Roi and Namur before the first landings were made 
on adjacent islets 31 January.  That morning INTREPID's planes strafed 
Ennuebing Island until 10 minutes before the first marines reached the 
beaches. Half an hour later that islet, which protected Roi's southwestern 
flank and controlled the North Pass into Kwajalein Lagoon, was secured, 
enabling marines to set up artillery to support their assault on Roi.
Her work in the capture of the Marshall Islands finished, INTREPID headed 
for Truk, the tough Japanese base in the center of Micronesia. Three fast 
carrier groups arrived undetected daybreak of the 17th, sinking two 
destroyers and 200,000 tons of merchant shipping in 2 days of almost 
continuous attacks. Moreover, the carrier raid demonstrated Truk's 
vulnerability and thereby greatly curtailed its usefulness to the Japanese as 
a base.
The night of 17 February 1944 an aerial torpedo struck INTREPID's starboard 
quarter, 15 feet below her waterline, flooding several compartments and 
jamming her rudder hard to port. By racing her port screw and idling her 
starboard engine, Captain Sprague kept her on course until 2 days later 
strong winds swung her back and forth and tended to weathercock her with 
her bow pointed
Page 447
toward Tokyo. Sprague later confessed: "Right then
I wasn't interested in going in that direction." At this
point the crew fashioned a jury-rig sail of hatch 
covers and scrap canvas which swung INTREPID about 
and held 
her on course. Decorated by her crazy-quilt sail, 
INTREPID stood into Pearl Harbor 24 February 1944.
After temporary repairs, INTREPID sailed for the West 
Coast 16 March and arrived Hunter's Point, Calif., the 
22d. She was back in fighting trim a June and departed 
for 2 months of operations out of Pearl Harbor, then to 
the Marshalls.
INTREPID's planes struck Japanese position in the Palaus 6 and 7 
September concentrating on airfields and
artillery emplacements on Peleliu. The next day her fast carrier 
task force steamed west toward the southern
Philippines to strike airfields on Mindanao 9 and 10 September. Then, 
after raids on bases in the Visayan Sea
12 through 14 September, she returned to the Palaus 17
September to support marines in overcoming 
fanatical opposition from hillside caves and 
mangrove swamps on Peleliu.
When the struggle on that deadly island settled 
down
to rooting Japanese defenders out of the ground on a
man to man basis, INTREPID steamed back to the Philippines to prepare 
the way for liberation.
She struck throughout the Philippines, also pounding
Okinawa and Formosa to neutralize Japanese air threats 
to Leyte.
As INTREPID's planes flew missions in support of the 
Leyte landings 20 October 144, Japan's Navy, 
desperately striving to hold the Philippines, was 
converging on Leyte 
Gulf from three directions. Ships of the U.S. Navy parried thrusts in four 
major actions collectively known as
the Battle for Leyte Gulf.
The morning of 24 October, an INTREPID plane spotted
Admiral Kurita's flagship, YAMATO. Two hours later,
planes from INTREPID and CABOT braved intense antiaircraft fire to begin a 
day-long attack on Center Force.
Wave after wave followed until by sunset American carrier-based planes 
had sunk mighty battleship MUSASHI
with her mammoth 18-inch guns and had damaged her
sister ship YAMATO along with battleships NAGATO 
and HARUNA and heavy cruiser MYOKO forcing the 
latter to withdraw.
That night Admiral Halsey's 3d Fleet raced north to 
intercept Japan's Northern Force which had been 
spotted 
of the northeastern tip of Luzon. At daybreak the tireless fliers went 
aloft to attack the Japanese ships then off
Cape Engano. One of INTREPID's planes got a bomb into
light carrier ZUIHO to begin the harvest. Then 
American bombers sank her sister ship CHITOSI, and a 
plane from either INTREPID or SAN JACINTO scored 
with a torpedo in large carrier ZUIKAKU knocking out 
her communications and hampering her steering. 
Destroyer AYITSUKI went to the bottom and at least 9 
of Ozawa's 15 planes were shot down.
On through the day the attack continued and, after five 
more strikes, Japan had lost four carriers and a destroyer. 
The still potent Center Force, after pushing through
San Bernardino Strait, had steamed south along the coast 
of Samar where it was held at bay by a little escort carrier group of six 
"baby flattops", three destroyers, and
four destroyer escorts until help arrived to send it fleeing
in defeat back towards Japan.
As INTREPID's planes hit Clark Field 30 October a burning kamikaze 
crashed into one of the carrier's port gun
tubs killing 10 men and wounding 6. Soon skillful damage control work 
enabled the flattop to resume flight operations.
INTREPID's planes continued to hit airfields and shipping
in the Philippines.
Shortly after noon 25 November a heavy force of Japanese planes struck 
back at the carriers. Within 5 minutes
2 kamikazes crashed into the carrier killing 6 officers and
5 bluejackets. INTREPID never lost propulsion nor left
her station in the task group; and. in less than 2 hours, had 
extinguished the last blaze. The next day, INTREPID headed 
for San Francisco, arriving 20 December for repairs. 
Back in fighting trim in mid-February 1945, the carrier steamed for Ulithi, 
arriving 13 March. The next day
she pushed on eastward for powerful strikes against airfields on Kyushu, 
Japan, 18 March. That morning a twin
engine "Betty" broke through a curtain of defensive fire
turned toward INTREPID and exploded only 50 feet off INTREPID's forward 
boat crane. A shower of flaming gasoline
and plane parts started fires on the hangar deck, out damage control experts 
quickly snuffed them out.
INTREPID's planes joined attacks on remnants of the
Japanese fleet anchored at Kure damaging 18 enemy 
naval
vessels including super battleship YAMATO and 
carrier AMAGI. Then the carriers turned to Okinawa 
as D-Day 
of the most ambitious amphibious assault of the 
Pacific war approached. Their planes lashed the 
Ryukyus 26 and 27 March, softening up enemy 
defensive works. Then, as the invasion began 1 April, 
they flew support missions against targets on 
Okinawa and made neutralizing raids against 
Japanese airfields in range of the embattled island.
During an air raid 16 April, a Japanese plane dove 
into 
INTREPID's flight deck forcing the engine and part of her 
fuselage right on through, killing 8 men and wounding 
21. In less than an hour the flaming gasoline had been 
extinguished, and only 3 hours after the crash, planes 
were again landing on the carrier.
The following day, INTREPID retired homeward via 
Ulithi and Pearl Harbor arriving San Francisco 19 May 
for repairs.
INTREPID stood out of San Francisco 29 June and enlivened her westward 
voyage 6 August as her planes
smashed Japanese on by-passed Wake Island. The next
day she arrived Eniwetok where she received word 15
August to "cease offensive operations."
The veteran carrier got under way 21 August to support the occupation of 
Japan. She departed Yokosuka 2
December and arrived San Pedro, Calif., 15 December
1945.
INTREPID shifted to San Francisco Bay 4 February 1948.
Her status was reduced to "in commission in 
reserve" 15 August before decommissioning 22 
March 1947 and joining the Pacific Reserve Fleet.
INTREPID recommissioned at San Francisco 9 
February 
1952 and got underway 12 March for Norfolk. She decommissioned in the 
Norfolk Naval Shipyard 9 April 1952
for conversion to a modern attack aircraft carrier. Reclassified CVA-11 1 
October, she recommissioned in reserve 18 June 1954. She became the 
first carrier in history
to launch aircraft with American-built steam catapults 13
October 1954. Two days later she went into full commission as a unit of 
the Atlantic Fleet.
After shakedown out of Guantanamo Bay 1955, INTREPID
departed Mayport, Fla., 28 May 1955 for the first of 
two deployments in the Mediterranean with the 6th 
Fleet, mainstay in preventing Communist aggression in 
Europe and the Middle East. She returned to Norfolk 
from the second of these cruises 5 September 195. The 
carrier got under way 29 September for a 7-month 
modernization 
overhaul in the New York Navy Yard, followed by refresher training out of 
Guantanamo Bay.
Boasting a reinforced angle flight deck and a mirror
landing system, INTREPID departed the United 
States in September 1957 for NATO's Operation 
"Strikeback", the 
largest peacetime naval exercise up to that time in history. Operating out 
of Norfolk in December she conducted Operation "Crosswind", a study of the 
effects of
wind on carrier launches. INTREPID proved that carriers
can safely conduct flight operations without turning 
into the wind and even launch planes while steaming 
downwind. 
During the next 4 years INTREPID alternated Mediterranean deployments 
with operations along the Atlantic
coast of the United States and exercises in the Caribbean.
On 8 December 1961 she was reclassified to an antisubmarine warfare 
support carrier, CVS-11. She entered
the Norfolk Navy Yard 10 March 1962 to be overhauled and refitted for 
her new antisubmarine warfare role.  She left the shipyard 2 April 
carrying Air Antisubmarine Group 56.
After training exercises, INTREPID was selected as the principal ship in the 
recovery team for Astronaut Scott Carpenter and his Project Mercury space 
capsule. Shortly before noon on 24 May 1962, Carpenter splashed down in 
AURORA 7 several hundred miles from INTREPID. Minutes after he was 
located by land-based search aircraft, two helicopters from INTREPID, 
carrying NASA officials, medical experts, Navy frogmen, and photographers, 
were airborne and headed to the rescue. One of the choppers picked him up 
over an hour later and flew him to the carrier which safely returned him to 
the United States.
After training midshipmen at sea in the summer and a thorough overhaul at 
Norfolk in the fall, the carrier departed Hampton Roads 23 January 1963 for 
warfare exercises in the Caribbean. Late in February she interrupted these 
operations to join a sea hunt for Venezuelan freighter, ANZOATEGUI whose 
mutinous second mate had led a group of proCastro terrorists in hijacking 
the vessel. After the Communist pirates had surrendered at Rio de Janeiro, 
the carrier returned to Norfolk 23 March 1963.
INTREPID operated along the Atlantic Coast for the next year from Nova 
Scotia to the Caribbean perfecting her antisubmarine techniques. She 
departed Norfolk 11 June 1964 carrying midshipmen to the Mediterranean 
for a hunter-killer at sea training with the 6th Fleet. While in the 
Mediterranean, INTREPID aided in the surveillance of a Soviet task group. En 
route home her crew learned that she had won the coveted Battle Efficiency 
"E" for antisubmarine warfare during the previous fiscal year.
INTREPID operated along the East Coast during the fall. Early in September 
she entertained 22 NATO statesmen as part of their tour of U.S. military 
installations. She was at Yorktown 18 to 19 October 1964 for ceremonies 
commemorating Lord Cornwallis' surrender 183 years before.
During a brief deployment off North Carolina, swift and efficient rescue 
procedures on the night of 21 November 1964 saved the life of an airman 
who had plunged overboard while driving an aircraft towing tractor. Early in 
the next year INTREPID began preparations for a vital role in NASA's first 
manned Gemini flight. On 23 March 1965 Lt. Comdr. John W. Young and Maj. 
Virgil I. Grissom in MOLLY BROWN splashed down some 50 miles from 
INTREPID after history's first controlled re-entry into the earth's 
atmosphere ended in the pair's nearly perfect three-orbit flight. A Navy 
helicopter lifted the astronauts from the spacecraft and flew them to 
INTREPID for medical examination and debriefing. Later INTREPID retrieved 
MOLLY BROWN and returned the spaceship and astronauts to Cape Kennedy.
After this mission INTREPID entered the Brooklyn Navy Yard in April for a 
major overhaul to bring her back to peak combat readiness.
This was the final Fleet Rehabilitation and Modernization (FRAM) job 
performed by the New York Naval Shipyard, Brooklyn, N.Y., slated to close 
after more than a century and a half of service to the nation.  In September, 
INTREPID, with her work approximately 75 percent completed, eased down 
the East River to moor at the Naval Supply Depot at Bayonne, N.J., for the 
completion of her multi-million dollar overhaul. After builder's sea trials 
and fitting out at Norfolk she sailed to Guantanamo on shakedown.
Mid-1966 found INTREPID with the Pacific Fleet off Vietnam. Here her 
gallant pilots delivered powerful blows for freedom and scored what is 
believed to be one of the fastest aircraft launching times recorded by an 
American carrier.  Nine A-4 Skyhawks and six A-1 Skyraiders, loaded with 
bombs and rockets, were catapulted in 7 minutes, with only 28second 
intervals between launches. A few days later planes were launched at 26-
second intervals. After 7 months of outstanding service with the 7th Fleet 
off Vietnam, INTREPID returned to Norfolk having earned her Commanding 
Officer, Captain John W. Fair, the Legion of Merit for combat operations in 
Southeast Asia.
In June of 1967, INTREPID returned to the Western Pacific by way of the 
Suez Canal just prior to its closing during the Arab-Israeli crisis. There she 
began another tour with the 7th Fleet to safeguard the peace and freedom of 
the world, for, as Daniel Webster said in 1834, "God 
grants liberty only to those who love it, and are always ready to guard and 
defend it."
